# EuroPython/2008/IRCMeetings/IRCMeeting6

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

# IRC Meeting #6 

## Time/Location 

The meeting will take place in the #europython channel on freenode on Thursday 13th March at 19:00 CET.

## Agenda/Minutes 

- Talks/Themes
  - Further theme discussion (need to group the themes and identify some good, distinct ones) - **David suggests creating a list of ten or so core themes and asking people to suggest more as required**

  - The length of talks - **we keep the 30 vs. 60 minute slots and make 45 minute sessions fill the rest of the time with discussion**

  - Any interest for tutorials - **we should ask more widely to get an idea if people want this, or are interested in giving tutorials**

  - **Michael Sparks suggests having a day of open space - we considered that a whole day might be too unfocused, but half a day combined with tutorials, keynotes or ordinary sessions**

  - **Laura suggested having a code clinic.**

  - Workflow discussion (how the talks will be handled)
- Registration/Budget
  - Progress of the test registration page

  - Progress of the budget and fees - **Laura indicates that the 200 Euro per room figure would work again**

  - Payment systems - investigations and discoveries - **Laura is working with [WorldPay](./WorldPay.html) to set up a payment mechanism**
- Feedback/Surveys
  - Progress on the processing of last year\'s surveys
- Sponsorship
  - Offers/packages/candidates - **we need more information about costs from the venue for having booths, streamers, etc.**

  - **Potentially offer sponsors the opportunity to have their own [SponsorSpaces](./SponsorSpaces.html) in extra rooms at the venue, these only cost about 200 Euro per day and should be available.**

  - [http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/europython-improve/2008-March/000072.html](http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/europython-improve/2008-March/000072.html)
- Publicity/Web site (status of previously discussed fixes/enhancements)
- General discussion (if necessary)
  - Sprints
  - Keynotes

## Post-Meeting Discussion 

Christian, David and Laura talked about video streaming, lighting and audio issues with last year\'s event and the problems of having too little time to edit video footage after an event.

Christian suggested arriving a day early to look into setting things up, David suggested some kind of sponsorship was required for the additional travel/accommodation expenses. Christian suggested getting sponsorship for better audio equipment.

## Actions 

- **Christian:** Try and find a copyright assignment form for presenters so that we can video them!

- **David:** Write the agenda for the next meeting and send out reminders.

- **Jacob:**

- **Laura:** Keep dealing with [WorldPay](./WorldPay.html) to set up a payment mechanism.

- **Paul:** Send out messages about themes and \"theme captains\" to europython\[-improve\] and python-list.

- **Marius:** Find out about the hotel\'s video conferencing capabilities and report back.

- **Zeth:**
