# EuroPython/2008/IRCMeetings/IRCMeeting3

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

# IRC Meeting #3 

## Time/Location 

The meeting took place on Thursday 14th February 2008 at 1900 CET in the #europython channel on freenode.

## Minutes 

- Web site
  - [New logos for EuroPython shall be submitted in the following two weeks.](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-14.log.html#t2008-02-14T20:07:29) [Paul will send out a mail about the proposed logos.](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-14.log.html#t2008-02-14T20:36:24) **A message has been posted to the mailing lists.**
- Timetable
  - [The proposed timetable was confirmed](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-14.log.html#t2008-02-14T20:19:12) and posted to [http://www.europython.org/community/Calendar](http://www.europython.org/community/Calendar) with the exception of the opening of registration, which was a separate topic of discussion.
- Sponsorship
  - [John and Jacob will coordinate negotiations with a potential sponsor.](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-14.log.html#t2008-02-14T20:25:09)
- Talks/Themes
  - [Paul will send out a mail asking the community for theme suggestions.](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-14.log.html#t2008-02-14T20:25:55) **A message has been posted to the general mailing list.**
- Registration/Budget
  - [John will make a test registration page available in two weeks.](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-14.log.html#t2008-02-14T20:33:52)

  - [Laura will continue work on the budget.](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-14.log.html#t2008-02-14T20:10:50) This will provide information about the level of the registration fees.

  - There was [some discussion about payment systems](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-14.log.html#t2008-02-14T20:11:24) in relation to setting up registration. [Laura will pursue the matter with the bank.](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-14.log.html#t2008-02-14T20:14:56)
- Publicity was covered in the communications mentioned above.
- Sprints were not discussed at this meeting.
- Keynotes were not discussed at this meeting.
- Feedback information was not provided at this meeting.
