# EuroPython/2008/IRCMeetings/IRCMeeting10

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

# IRC Meeting #10 

## Time/Location 

The meeting will take place in the #europython channel on freenode at 18:00 CEST on Thursday 24th April.

Please look at the minutes from the last meeting for more background information: [../IRCMeeting9](./EuroPython(2f)2008(2f)IRCMeetings(2f)IRCMeeting9.html)

## Present 

Aiste, David, Eugene, Harald, Lennart, Paul, Zeth.

## Agenda/Minutes 

- Registration/Budget
  - *Aiste/Laura/Jacob* to report on the progress of the budget and fees. **Most details appear to be in order.**

  - Details of fees are required for registration. Discussion required! **It would appear that fees will be the same as last year.**

  - *Laura* to indicate any change in the status of payment systems, [WorldPay](./WorldPay.html), and so on. **Laura couldn\'t make it to the meeting, but based on previous reports, [PayPal](./PayPal.html) and \"pay later\" via bank transfer (and cash at the door) are assumed.**

  - T-shirts - any proposals or plans? **See [this page](http://www.europython.org/community/T_Shirts)!**
- Keynotes
  - We have preliminary acceptance by one keynoter. What now?
- Sponsorship
  - *Aiste* to provide information on venue costs (booths, streamers, etc.) in order to help with sponsor rate planning. **[Apparently, booths/tables/streamers incur no extra venue-specific costs.](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-04-10.log.html#t2008-04-10T19:10:05)**

  - Further discussion of the [SponsorOffers](SponsorOffers) document.

  - Further discussion of the sponsorship of attendees (plus any information that should be published).
- Feedback/Surveys
  - Progress on the processing of last year\'s surveys
- Talks/Themes
  - *Paul* put out a [Call for Participation](http://www.europython.org/community/CallForParticipation)

  - *Paul* set up some python.org mailing lists for talks/contact. Anyone needing access should speak up!

  - *Aiste, Marius, Laura:* Update on the videoconferencing arrangements.

  - Any progress on the consensus around streaming and dedicated lines.

  - More discussion on adding something about the recording policy on the registration form.

  - **John asked about paid-for tutorials. David indicated that this wasn\'t likely to happen unless it was something the people giving tutorials expected, and that tutorials should probably be scheduled as part of the normal programme.**
- General discussion (if necessary)
  - Sprints

## Actions 

- See the bold sections above\...
