# EuroPython/2008/IRCMeetings/IRCMeeting13

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

# IRC Meeting #13 

(Actually, this is more like meeting #14 or #15, but we kept the agenda from meeting #12 for two or three weeks.)

## Time/Location 

The meeting will take place in the #europython channel on freenode at 18:00 CEST on Thursday 29th May.

Please look at the minutes from the last meeting for more background information: [../IRCMeeting12](./EuroPython(2f)2008(2f)IRCMeetings(2f)IRCMeeting12.html)

## Present 

Laura, Stephan, Jacob, John, Aiste, David, Harald

## Agenda/Minutes 

- Registration/Budget - status as early registration end approaches
  - **We\'re close to the early bird deadline, so we need to remind people to register.**

  - **We have 71 delegates so far, which is ahead of last year\'s figure at this point, but the early bird deadline was later last year.**

- Getting the logo cleared with the PSF - *Laura was to contact the PSF. The PSF has responded to [PyCon](PyCon) UK about their logo.* - **We\'re OK to use it.**

- Keynotes - confirmation of our speakers - *Aiste was introduced to Hans. Biographical details plus announcement required.*

  - **Laura will get details from Hans. We should use these in adverts for the conference.**

  - **There will be two keynotes on the Monday.**

  - **The streaming situation is in hand.**

- Talks - status report on submissions received and acceptance
  - **We have around 47 talks submitted.**

- Sponsorship
  - Brief discussion of the status of sponsors, incoming materials, and so on.
    - **Google will have a booth, regular sponsor.**

    - **Logilab has signed up as lunch sponsor.**

    - **Wingware and Activestate have signed up as gift sponsors, special deals.**

    - **We\'ll try to approach Sun, Canonical and possibly Opera.**
  - Further discussion of the sponsorship of attendees (plus any information that should be published).

- T-shirts (as noted on [this page](http://www.europython.org/community/T-Shirts))

  - **Aiste will start the process of producing T-shirts.**

- Streaming and dedicated lines - *We have to see what the traffic shaping is like. We need volunteers, too, so maybe it\'s time to use the europython-volunteer-announce list. The proposed licensing was controversial for some.*

  - **We know who has given permission already, but we may need to check with others at the conference.**

  - **We should send out a call/reminder for volunteers interested in recording audio/video.**

- food \-- check to see that things are being handled on that front
  - **The hotel needs to plan for the breaks - Laura will try to make a break schedule, even if the talk schedule is not finalised yet.**

  - *Various food options and ordering strategies were discussed.*

  - **Food for sprints will be ordered after the conference starts.**

## Actions 

- See the bold sections above\...
