# EuroPython/2008/IRCMeetings/IRCMeeting1

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

# IRC Meeting #1 

## Time/Location 

The meeting took place on Monday 28th January 2008 at 1900 CET in the #europython channel on freenode.

## Minutes 

- Dates of the conference were discussed, and despite conflicting with GUADEC, most people were happy with **7th-12th July**. Aiste was to confirm the agreed dates and venue with the hotel (Reval Hotel Lietuva). **This was confirmed the following day.**

- Marius started to log the IRC channel at the following address: [http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/)

- Laura is handling the financial management for the conference this year in place of Dario.

- John made a [proposal](http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/europython-improve/2008-January/000035.html) regarding Web sites and infrastructure which was then discussed:

  1.  Public Web site
      - Paul will take responsibility for the public Web site - a [MoinMoin](MoinMoin) Wiki currently located here: [http://europython.pyconuk.org/](http://europython.pyconuk.org/)

      - Zeth is administering the Wiki infrastructure. Matt offered to help out with the Web site; lenscape also offered to police the Wiki.
  2.  Registration
      - John\'s shopping cart solution for [PyCon](PyCon) UK will be used for registration. (The shopping cart is flexible with regard to payment services and can use [WorldPay](./WorldPay.html) as well as [PayPal](./PayPal.html), which people reported problems with. According to Zeth, a \"non-shopping cart approach\" could be done, but not for this year\'s conference.)

      - The payment currency will be the Euro, but amounts in other currencies should be provided for information.

      - Bank transfers will still be supported as many people rely on them for payment. (People will be able to specify this in the shopping cart and a list of payees will then be available for verification by the bank account holders.)

      - Cheques will **not** be accepted as payment. (Zeth pointed out that UK residents will probably need to book flights with a credit card anyway.)
  3.  Proposals and scheduling
      - Paul suggested that the programme organisers should themselves decide on the infrastructure necessary (thus keeping it separate from the above systems).

      - Laura suggested that all members of the selection committee should commit to reading all abstracts.

      - [PyCon](PyCon) UK and [EuroPython](EuroPython) have previously scheduled talks using paper cards and in other ad-hoc ways.

      - [PyCon](PyCon) UK used the [PyCon](PyCon)-Tech solution, which is available for use, but some expressed satisfaction with e-mail, cards and Wikis.

- Paul will take up DNS matters with the parties holding the `europython.org`{.backtick} domain.

- Sponsorship will be discussed in a subsequent meeting.

## Minutes 

These minutes were written by John and sent to Laura:

1.  Subject to venue availability, EP 2008 will be 7th-12th July in Vilnius. **This was confirmed the following day.**

2.  The main website will be Paul\'s moin-moin wiki, which we will host here. Paul will look after it (with technical assistance from Zeth here when needed). I\'m not sure who will be responsible for the content, I assume that you and Aiste will arrange this.

3.  The UK PyWM group will be responsible for the Registration Bookings and Payments system.

4.  Whoever is responsible for organising the talks programme will decide what they want to use, eg simple email, the [PyCon](PyCon)-tech system, whatever. Suggestion: make Samuele head up the talks, as he was so unhappy with [PyCon](PyCon) US on this, he should have the chance to put it right.

No decision on [EuroPython](EuroPython) 2009/2010.

Next meeting Thursday 7th February. No time set, I suggest 18:00 CET, which might be better for Aiste.
