# PackagingWG/2019-03-11-Warehouse

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

Warehouse kickoff meeting, 11 March 2019

6pm-6:20pm UK, 2pm-2:20pm ET, 11am-11:20am ET

[https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=3&day=11&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=304&p2=179&p3=137](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=3&day=11&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=304&p2=179&p3=137)

Attending:

- Sumana Harihareswara
- Nicole Harris
- Dustin Ingram
- Mike Myers
- Will
- Donald

Absent:

- Ernest W. Durbin III - PSF

Introductions:

- Sumana: NYC (Eastern Time); project management, 5-10 hrs/week
- Mike - Southern California, project managing for ToB, maybe 1hr/week, some reports, helping with billing and invoices
- Will - NYC, technical person, \~20hrs/week, backend engineering
- Nicole - Scotland, UX, HTML, and CSS of Warehouse - up to 10 hrs/week, can fluctuate
- Dustin - Texas, Warehouse maintainer, can allocate about 1hr/week, maybe 2 for PRs, review, answering questions
- Donald - Pennsylvania, Warehouse maintainer and admin, no set amount of time allocated, can make time
- Absent: Ernest - US Eastern/Centralish. Available 7am-4pm Eastern Monday-Friday. Support from infrastructure, dev, and feature perspective. Review PRs

Planned next steps:

- Task 1: Multi-Factor Auth (MFA), Task 2: API Keys, Task 3: Audit Trail - which first?
- Will get dev env setup
  - Will: start with MFA - review [https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/pull/4373](https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/pull/4373)

  - #pypa-dev on Freenode IRC

  - also [https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/pull/4618](https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/pull/4618)

  - (set up necessary discussions among Trail of Bits, Nicole, Dustin, and Donald)
- Nicole - look at that PR, talk with Will about needed views/templates

Tabled Activities: none ![:-)](/wiki/europython/img/smile.png ":-)")

Issues/Blockages: None! Trail of Bits & Nicole - contracts are ok ![:-)](/wiki/europython/img/smile.png ":-)")

Question: OTF reporting?

- Sumana to work that out with Ernest and Tara.

  Probably like the MOSS reporting from [https://wiki.python.org/psf/PackagingWG](https://wiki.python.org/psf/PackagingWG) - consistent public reports, forwarded to funder

Unavailability between now & mid-June?

- PyCon NA plans (Maintainers summit May 4th, sprints May 6-9)

  - Sumana - yes

  - Donald - probably yes

  - Dustin - yes

  - Nicole & Mike - no

  - Will - maybe

  - Absent: Ernest (con chair)
