# PackagingWG/2020-07-29-pip-teamwidemeeting

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

**pip donor-funded work: continuing meeting notepad**[BR](./BR.html)[BR](./BR.html)Team Meeting: Wed 29 July

Attendees

- Bernard
- Nicole
- Sumana
- Georgia
- Ernest

Agenda

- Conference call/videocall platforms - preferences? (may switch from Uberconference)
  - maybe turn on video in Uberconference in Chrome
  - will discuss with Pradyun
- Blockers/status
  - Sumana: pip 20.2 release - done!
    - write and send announcements/blog post
    - write and submit Mozilla end-of-project report
    - in early August: reconcile/update budget stuff

  - Georgia: no blockers. iterating and getting feedback on surveys/plans

  - Nicole: working on functionality research epic plan
    - would be useful if Sumana knows any particular issues on tracker that should be looked into under that epic! please flag. Nicole has gone through issue tracker & looked up ones marked UX, but other things \.... there are many many tickets! Ask the other pip developers of relevant stuff to look at

      - TODO - Sumana - once Nicole has a draft, ask pip-committers to take a look, what else should go in this research epic
      - Suggestion: Nicole: look at 20 oldest open packaging-problems repo issues

  - Bernard: putting together research plan for pip-& package-manager-ecosys research, and putting together a survey for pip users and disabilities (nearly finished, will want review/feedback). Also been doing outreach to specific communities that use Python & pip but are not programming/dev focused. So, like, artists, educators, people using Python in electronics design, etc.

  - Ernest: tomorrow & all of next week, unavailable

  - Georgia will actually be around the week of the 9th. \[potential unavailability part of Sept\]
