# PackagingWG/2020-03-26-pip

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

## Dev mini syncup 

26 March 2020

Participants: Paul, Pradyun, Tzu-Ping

Agenda:

- `ignore_dependencies`{.backtick} implementation [https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/7888](https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/7888)

  - It works! ![:)](/wiki/europython/img/smile.png ":)")

  - Paul: wasn\'t expecting any issues. I\'ll catch up and merge; and deal with the merge conflicts.

  - TP: One of the problems is that we need to add/remove/modify arguments on the same function.
    - Paul: If we change that to partials, it\'ll simplify a bit. Avoiding too much coupling. Relatively simple to think about.

  - Pradyun: LGTM; one minor comment on set comparison.
    - TP: Can be a follow up PR.

- Extras implementation [https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/7897](https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/7897)

  - Paul needs write the implementation idea down to avoid getting into the same loop every time.
  - Paul: code seems fine to me.
  - Invalid extras.
    - To warn undefined extras you need to know the list of defined extras
    - But to get a list of extras you need to prepare the dist, so we can't warn as soon as we build the candidate
    - We can warn on get_dependencies(), but what if we call it multiple times
      - Cache the result (it's not gonna change)
      - Pradyun: It's still better to warn multiple times than not warning at all
    - Paul: Code currently doesn\'t have warning/logging mechanisms imported.
      - Paul: I\'ll put it in `logger.warning()`{.backtick}
  - A test on extra merging
    - Needed at some point, but not at the simple test case stage we're in now
    - Paul: Expects Ilan will come in for this
    - Need to better understand how Ilan fits into the rest of the work here.

- Requires-Python prototype needs at least one interface tweak [https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/7889](https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/7889)

  - Order of work: ignore_dependencies, extras, refactoring for decoupling, then this.

  - Need to change `get_dependencies()`{.backtick} implementation as well

- Use installed dist: `ignore_installed`{.backtick} and `force_reinstall`{.backtick} [https://github.com/pypa/pip/projects/5#card-35032881](https://github.com/pypa/pip/projects/5#card-35032881)

  - InstalledProjectCandidate

    - Refactoring of \"make_candidate\" will help.
      - InstallProjectCandidate would have a very different interface \-- no links.
    - Again, it shouldn\'t be too difficult; but it\'s all prep work for the actual implementation.
    - Paul: treated with the right priority \[inaudible\]
    - Pradyun: Also need to think about how it fits in with priorities
    - Paul: Thinking about how to implement the flags, once we have a concrete candidate
    - TP: Agree with Paul; priorities is next topic!

- Is it time to talk about `upgrade_strategy`{.backtick} again? (Probably not yet.)

  - We\'ll talk about this priorities and `upgrade_strategy`{.backtick} later, once there is an implementation.

- Broader resolution debugging ideas!
  - visualizing the exploration?
  - E.g. resolver revisting a candidate when it shouldn't, it would be easier to debug if we have a way to dump the state from the resolvelib side and then generate something to visualize that.
  - This is where reporter comes into play.
    - Pradyun: The problem of UI and debuggability are \*very\* close.

    - Paul: The reporter object should be able to do both (report things to the user, and dump state to the implementer)

    - Paul: Last time I needed to do something like this, I put prints in code.

    - TP: Where did you put the \"print\" \-- that\'s probably a good place to report. ![:)](/wiki/europython/img/smile.png ":)")

    - Paul: put them on the Provider.

    - Another useful thing would be to add better `__repr__`{.backtick} and `__str__`{.backtick} on our Requirement/Candidate objects

- Time\'s up! Team meeting time!

- **TODO**: Travis CI

  - BTW why is Travis stalling so much recently
    - :shrug: I don\'t know!

End of meeting.

## Team syncup 

Weekly team meeting March 26, 2020

Participants:

- Bernard
- Georgia
- Paul
- Pradyun
- Sumana
- Tzu-Ping

Agenda:

- Blockers
  - Pradyun:
    - nothing
    - almost done with documentation
  - Paul: I\'ve got a few items I can work on; we have an order of work+PRs
    - Are we OK in terms of merging PRs, since TP can\'t merge changes?
    - How I can help: be more proactive in merging, if merge queue is a problem for TP.
  - Tzu-Ping:
    - not much of a problem that I can\'t merge. More like we need to decide when we want to merge things. Sometimes we are waiting for each other\'s opinion, but the back-and-forth causes a lot of overhead for a team setup like this.

    - Paul: maybe we have a list of ongoing PRs on syncup, or be more aggressive at merging.

    - Sumana: This sounds like a very rational case of wanting to not be rash. That sounds like something where a slightly more automated system would help. If we have a certain PRs in a milestone; having a tracking issue/project board to have a list of PRs in a particular place (waiting on approvals), are people hesitating is clicking approve?

    - TP: The flow of PR reviews \-- responses to fixes by PR authors, after suggested changes are implemented.

    - Paul: Waiting on reviews from \*everyone\*, since we end up getting stuck waiting on people to review.

    - Sumana: Tracking your own, hasn\'t been merged yet. Pinging folks more eagerly. \[too fast for note taker\]

    - **TODO**: check in again next week, see whether that has helped
  - Georgia:
    - no blockers
    - Bernard and I were thinking about how to collaborate/knowledge-share more.
  - Bernard
    - no blockers.
    - The main issue is getting responses from people who said that they\'re interested in participating (part of the normal flow).
    - I can\'t do much user research without users to interview.
- Engaging people/users in intereviews
  - Sumana: \"engagement funnel\" \-- how many people click \"I\'ll be there\" vs how many actually show up. I\'ve publicized to improve this. PSF blog, PyPA twitter, LWN [https://lwn.net/Articles/815902/](https://lwn.net/Articles/815902/) all have publicized about this.

  - Sumana: do we have number of how many people we want to interview to be \"happy\"?

  - Bernard: it\'s not going to be possible to have a number; given there are millions of users. 127 users right now, happy with these. 500 people by the end of the project, I would be over the moon. 250 people: more than happpy.

  - Sumana: I ask to prioritize the importance of trying to do user recruitment; if I have better sense of \"gap\" of where people are needed.

  - Bernard: It would be great to have the PSF twitter account to RT certain relevant tweets; on few more times/regular basis.

  - Bernard: Contacting podcasts. Having someone else who\'s a bit-more-recognizable do intros. (SH?)

  - Bernard: I don\'t want people to be doing this \"full time\" \-- we\'re never guarenteed an ideal response.

  - Sumana: Ideal isn\'t possible; but we don\'t want to miss by an order of magnitude etc.
    - **TODO**: Sumana: get list of podcasts from Bernard, do intros

    - **TODO**: Sumana: get The PSF to tweet a few times per month for the rest of the project about the UX study signups
- Resolver team participating in UX calls
  - Sumana: \[has this happened?\]
  - Bernard: Has not happened, since there\'s been a blocker in scheduling calls.
  - Georgia: research infrastructure is in progress
- Suggestions on weekly collaborative working with the team
  - would get a lot out of collaboratively looking at issues that come into the [GitHub](./GitHub.html) queue \... have time to talk with people who are better at interpreting - technical issue? feedback needs changing? etc.

  - suggestion: 7:30-9am ET on Wednesdays\... optional. Drop-in time.
    - [https://www.worldtimebuddy.com/?pl=1&lid=2643743,1275339,5,1668341&h=1275339&date=4/1/2020%7C3](https://www.worldtimebuddy.com/?pl=1&lid=2643743,1275339,5,1668341&h=1275339&date=4/1/2020%7C3)

    - Paul: That\'s 11:30 am UK (maybe 10:30,we\'re changing to DST soon). I can maybe do some of that slot.

    - Tzu-Ping: 7am ET is not great for me \.... could be free from 8am. Drop-in would work well for me.

    - Georgia - maybe 8-8:30, bug triage as a group

    - Paul: 7:30-9 slot is okay \.... Wednesdays, I have other work commitments in the morning. Will try to drop in, may get pulled off. Will try next Wed.

  - Sumana: let\'s try it twice and see whether we need to reformat.

  - Bernard: Announce we want to do thing X at time T, and people can drop in if they can
    - Triage + Outreach + other things
    - SH: Triage is probably what this group being together would be best.
    - (discussion on potentially using Zoom) - we will use Zoom to start
    - SH: We should definitely have notes. Leave them in this or a different Etherpad, and then move them someplace more permanent.
- Ilan\'s involvement, testing
  - **TODO**: Sumana - follow up, get him in Zulip conversation

  - April - we will probably need to concentrate more on testing and test infrastructure

For the team, here\'s the type of participants who\'ve signed up for research - how and why and where they use Python, etc. A taste!

[http://www.ei8fdb.org/thoughts/2020/03/pip-ux-studies-response-data/](http://www.ei8fdb.org/thoughts/2020/03/pip-ux-studies-response-data/)

- Pradyun: looks great!

- (bernard) thanks ![:)](/wiki/europython/img/smile.png ":)")

Additional TODO followups from the 19th:

- Sumana: start putting a due date on invoices

- Sumana: give Ernest a general summary of progress/project status

- Sumana: talk with Paul & Pradyun on Zulip to generate a list of names/teams/projects elsewhere in packaging, and invite them in small batches to some calls
