# PackagingWG/2020-03-05-pip

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

## Resolver mini-syncup 

Mini-syncup, 5 Mar 2020

Paul, Pradyun, TP

- TP: Initial effort posted. What's that PreviousBuildError about ![:(](/wiki/europython/img/sad.png ":(")

- Paul: We will get into a mess (I can't prove it) if we ever reuse a build directory for two things. Maybe it will be easier if we ever only build InstallRequirement from a link, and nothing else.

  - So only use InstallRequirement for Candidate, and not for Requirement

  - TP: Now that I re-read the implementation, it would make sense to do that.

- Paul and Pradyun will spend some time after the meeting to read the PR and work on that.

- Pradyun wants to split the provider, requirement, candidate, etc. into different PRs, each with tests, and submit them separately.
  - TP: Requirement and Candidate are very coupled so that'd probably be the most problematic to separate,
  - Let's see what we can do

- Someone from Twitter filed an issue within the last day saying: hey! we have implemented pip resolver that turns requirements into ? \.... [https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/7819](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/7819)

## Team syncup 

Team syncup, 5 March 2020

Participants:

- Bernard
- Pradyun
- Tzu-Ping
- Paul
- Sumana
- Georgia

Agenda

Bernard & Georgia are working to share their notes from CZI convening

- Invoices
  - TP - check

  - Pradyun - started, can send Jan & Feb invoices within a day or two.

    - Q: Invoicing the week at CZI EOSS?
      - TODO - Sumana to follow up separately with Pradyun & Georgia about this \-- DONE

  - Atos/Paul - please chase this to get a combined Jan/Feb invoice
    - Atos invoice has gone through the system, but that copy may go to the formal invoicing address.
    - Brian will follow up with a PDF copy to the requested names/emails, should go out today.

  - Georgia for Simply Secure - adding details for Jan + Feb \-- by end of this week?

  - Changeset - submitting this week

- Blockers?
  - Georgia & Bernard:

    - Research plan? Spending some time in a longer catchup on Monday, thinking about tools, ongoing resources, etc.
    - No particular blockers
    - Coming up: B has finished recruitment survey, will make a personal blog post about it, would like to get it circulated widely! Will want input/help
      - TODO: Sumana to help signal-boost and advise on publicity \-- DONE
      - Pradyun: Let me know when you have that up; I\'ll signal boost on my blog too.

  - Tzu-Ping:
    - Things are moving along \.... reading some other implementations from Twitter: [https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/7819](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/7819) \...

    - resolver prototype\... now & next week ( [https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/7799](https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/7799) )

  - Paul:
    - this past week, been fragmented, other stuff in the way\.... pre-meeting chat, now knows what is next \... refactoring prototype implementation, look at [https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/7819](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/7819) , get some tests of new implementation in place

    - Was short on time this week, will grab time back from work NEXT week.

  - Pradyun:
    - not blocked on anything \.... not that I\'m aware of right now

  - Sumana:
    - TODO: get in touch with Bethanie, and Phyllis, for things TODO for PyCon plans

      - PyCon registration fees refunded to individuals so cost is coming from donated funds \-- easier logistically; no effects.

    - Personal errands taking up a lot of time \-- delegating where can.

- pip logo issue [https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/7754#issuecomment-588194568](https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/7754#issuecomment-588194568)

  - (last discussion) It\'s probably OK to delay \-- is that still True?
    - Bernard previously said: ok to delay. Bernard notes: activity to come up with \"what pip is\" is an important activity, for SS\'s user-centered design, and later for branding

    - Today: reiterating that. (And yes a logo is \_useful\_.) Logo design brief would be useful.

    - if people feel very strongly to get a logo NOW, we can put it up as a job (free/paid) on OpenSourceDesign \-- logo design requests are common there \-- may or may not be picked up.

      - Sumana: I don\'t think we urgently need it
      - Georgia: As part of promoting the work, it might make sense to ask in interviews / collect ideas / bring engagement.
      - Sumana: I have had past experiences where bikeshedding / untrained input about visual design has been noisy and drowned useful thought / caused burnout. If we can \"channel\" this appropriately, we might be able to do it \-- we may not be able to put in the time needed to do so.
      - Georgia: If more people would want to give input; we could have that used to create a brief \-- we want people to understand that we are asking about the \"feeling\" that the logo conveys.
      - Sumana: my memory was w.r.t. logo design contest \-- getting inputs from users would be better perhaps.
      - Georgia: \[note taker was too slow\] we can do
      - Sumana: we can talk about this more later.

- Do we have any news on impact of corona virus on Python conferences? [https://pycon.blogspot.com/2020/03/march-2-update-on-covid-19.html](https://pycon.blogspot.com/2020/03/march-2-update-on-covid-19.html) currently says all AOK.

  - PyCon plans: regular updates from PyCon

  - None of the team is planning on cancelling NOW, but keeping an eye on it
    - Pradyun: I\'ll need keep an eye out for it, in case the situation becomes drastically works, especially closer to the conference
    - Bernard: agree with that.
    - Paul: Being sponsored by work \-- will need to check with them \-- should likely be OK. I do have some concerns, and agree w/ Pradyun on taking a cautious approach.

- Communication
  - with stakeholders: [https://gist.github.com/brainwane/f5a3dd07099d56bd2cb1ec60e1650598](https://gist.github.com/brainwane/f5a3dd07099d56bd2cb1ec60e1650598)

  - Need a way to describe what we are doing with the new resolver to scale down people\'s expectations.

  - pip will not magically be able to read users\' minds and do the right thing when it isn\'t right now

  - We\'ll need to involve Sumana in this, and provide the topics we want to send across to the users

  - TODO: edit the gist to reflect that

  - Paul notes: re branding: have a certain level of style, pulls together \"this is the new pip/info\" distinguishing us from old resolver\.... Warehouse rollout (not just calling it \"PyPI\") \... distinction between new & old \... consistent reference

    - Georgia: opporunity to give whole new identity upon rollout

  - Can we do this work in a collab doc instead of GitHub gist?

    - Sure!

    - TODO: Sumana to move to another document platform \-- DONE

    - [https://hackmd.io/@pradyunsg/BJq9aKREI](https://hackmd.io/@pradyunsg/BJq9aKREI)

  - TODO: question in Zulip - what other topics/points to cover?
    - Call for input to interview?
    - Input on the logo/brand ideas?
