# PackagingWG/2020-09-02-pip-teamwidemeeting

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

Wednesday 2nd September

Participants:

- Ernest
- Sumana
- Georgia
- Pradyun

Absent:

- Bernard will miss the meeting due to a family appointment. Apologies.
- Nicole also missing Wednesdays from now on. Georgia + Bernard will have updates and input from Nicole!

Agenda:

- Status & blockers:

  - Pradyun \-- unfortunately fast-deps does not help performance right now, needs work

  - Georgia: fine; Oh! one note --- Georgia out next week.

  - Sumana - need to checkin with Ernest about sponsor letters & more

- Invoices
  - Please send Aug invoices

- Nicole: We need an email address for users to send feedback about the docs to. Can \@ewdurbin set up a \"[docs_feedback@pypa.io](mailto:docs_feedback@pypa.io)\"? Once done, can we please share the email on [https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8783](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8783)? Please thank you ![:)](/wiki/europython/img/smile.png ":)")

  - Alt: [pip-ux+docs@pypa.io](mailto:pip-ux+docs@pypa.io)

  - Alt-alt: \<a href=\"[pip-ux@pypa.io](mailto:pip-ux@pypa.io)?subject=UX feedback on docs!\"\>Second Example\</a\>

  - Ernest: let\'s make it an alias of the pip-UX inbox\.... tell me what alias you want
    - Georgia: docs_feedback is good.

    - Done: [docs-feedback@pypa.io](mailto:docs-feedback@pypa.io)

    - TODO: Georgia to update issue

- Update UX work
  - Bernard has been interviewing lots of people and getting good information so far. We are setting up a system to support Nicole and get interviews scheduled for her so she can maximize her Tuesdays!
  - Outreach Plan for additional Surveys and Interviews
    - We are finalizing the content on the new UX page for pip.pypa.io, this will be the hub with information about all of the active surveys
      - PR: [https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/8807](https://github.com/pypa/pip/pull/8807)
    - We would like to take an approach where we highlight a survey topic each week for attention from the community, e.g.
      - Tweet about a particular survey for the week, and point people to the pip.pypa.io page for other surveys if they are interested

      - 2x week would be reasonable!

      - Sumana: If we can use \"limited replies\" that might be good, to push input to the survey.

      - Ernest: Check if [TweetDeck](./TweetDeck.html) and [SproutSocial](./SproutSocial.html) support that

      - Ernest: provide a template for the tweet and we can set that up (To clarify, Ernest can schedule the tweets directly, will review any with Betsy as necesary)

      - Sumana: Other twitter accounts?
    - We will also do similar directed outreach to the people who have already signed up to be a part of the research panel
    - We are drafting a blog post that could hopefully go on PSF blog also to get attention to the surveys
      - NH: PSF Newsletter in 1.5 weeks can we leverage that ask? a blurb?)
    - TODO:
      - Georgia share tweet templates with Ernest & Betsy
  - Also --- doing some research about options for sticker incentives and direct fulfillment

- triage the \"needs triage\" cards in [https://github.com/pypa/pip/projects/5](https://github.com/pypa/pip/projects/5)

- triage the \"needs triage\" cards in [https://github.com/pypa/pip/projects/6](https://github.com/pypa/pip/projects/6)

  - TODO: [https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8307](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8307) better document what pip will allow in the future

TODO:

- After this call- Sumana & Pradyun stick around for blockbreaking
