# PackagingWG/2020-10-12-pip-teamwidemeeting

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

Tues Oct 12

Participants

- Bernard
- Georgia
- Nicole
- Ernest
- Sumana

Agenda

- Pip & backtracking

  - Bernard: does the UX team need to do anything more on this?
    - Put together a survey, because the current/legacy resolver doesn\'t do backtracking \-- users won\'t be aware.
    - Does Pradyun have wording to implement? Yes, and will need Bernard to review the PR

- Issues - anything you\'re waiting on?
  - Nicole: error message suggestions \-- [https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8495](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8495) \-- Pradyun & Bernard \-- re: #8494 .

  - Issue 7744: a survey we need to analyze. Nicole to discuss with Georgia & Bernard

    - 70% majority say pip should do things in a certain way. Need to analyze comments. Unfortunately it\'s not that way we\'ve implemented it!

  - Pradyun: 20.2.4 to go out in a few hours. Reviewed TP\'s PR, #8932, the big speedup, will be in 20.2.4. Will have something for Bernard to review Wed or Thurs

  - Georgia: contract amendment

  - Ernest: invoices!

  - Sumana: to do \-- reach out to DI re volunteer customer support for 20.3 \[later note: this is now done\]

- Tomorrow?
  - pip output redesign\... not the right time, but this is a big discussion. Let\'s do that at a later stage.

- CZI convening
  - TODO: Sumana to follow up and look at hours, whether we are attending, etc.
  - Could Ernest come? Could other team members come?
