# PackagingWG/2020-04-30-pip

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

Teamwide meeting (30 April 2020)

Agenda:

- Checkins - how are you? \[private for team members only\]

- Blockers
  - Resolver team:
    - Broader conversation to be had about error messages. We are in a bit of limbo - we need info
      - TODO: UX team to follow up on that
    - TODO: Need syncup among Ilan, Paul, TP, and Pradyun, re YAML tests and how they work now
    - Currently triaging the tricky resolver tests that are failing.
    - Many PRs are waiting for master to be unlocked before merging. Not much of a way to help that. Once those PRs are merged, we can look at remaining tests failing on master to bring resolver up to feature parity. A lot of work waiting for us once we get PRs merged. Kind of a problem that we aren\'t merging them right now
    - Once we get things merged into master, will fire things up in earnest. Paul has constraints implementation in a state, pretty good to go. Doug Hellman has offered to help test that once it goes in. Had to iterate on the approach.
      - TODO: Paul to get back to him after freeze is lifted & constraints implementation is merged.
  - UX team: \[discussion of delay because COVID-19\] (Thank you Sumana. That helps me a lot.)
    - Georgia: that sounds good.
  - Ilan: not directly blocked by anything except waiting for a PR to be merged. There are things I can do. Looking at error handling right now. A question for me would be: how precise the error handling should be. What warning or error msgs the tests should be looking for
    - TODO: next conversation \-- Pradyun to schedule a followup call with Ilan and TP (optional: Paul) - for syncup plus answer to this.

- Ilan & test-creation work

  - postponed to smaller meeting

- TODOs followup from past meetings
  - TODO: Bethanie to find some meeting times for 1-hr or additional half-hour times for subset of team
    - Georgia: Nicola (Simply Secure Admin) is helping to include Nicole Harris\' calendar in this too, but Nicole can\'t do Thursday/Fridays FYI.

  - TODO: Sumana to talk in Zulip about the transparency concern

  - TODO: Pradyun to follow up on issues that are fixed by pip 20.1 and tell them \"please download and install 20.1\"
    - Done!

  - TODO: Tzu-Ping to file Warehouse issue requesting pip command to open project URL ( pypi.org/project/\<name\>/\<version\> ) to let the user have easy access to metadata.

    - Still TODO

  - TODO: Resolvelib [https://github.com/sarugaku/resolvelib/issues/46](https://github.com/sarugaku/resolvelib/issues/46)

    - Pradyun to file a PR to resolvelib, adding the hook.
      - Done!
    - TP to update documentation for the hook and merge.
      - Done!

  - TODO: Share out from user interviews and research so far.
    - In-Progress, behind this week because of life blockers.

  - TODO: Pradyun: error messages situation needs a broader discussion. Intertwined with UX work + implementation + testing. Hits the communications ? we have blockers on those dimensions.
    - ++ Georgia

    - UX needs to share out from interviews & research

    - also a focused conversation on error messages would be helpful.

    - Who needs to be in it?
      - Ilan, Pradyun, Georgia and/or Bernard, Paul, TP, Sumana

    - We already have some kind of error message in 20.1 but it is pretty bad. Gathering info on how people respond to that errror msg, maybe from survey, would help us work from there.

    - TODO: Schedule this for Friday or Monday (Sumana to do this via Zulip) - 60 minutes.

- Items for followup conversations (in calls or Zulip)
  - Error messages! Urgent! (see above)
  - Release schedule for May
    - freeze of master - how fast can we get it lifted? is it already lifted?
      - It\'s been lifted already? [https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/7951#issuecomment-620789028](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/7951#issuecomment-620789028)

      - We may just be being hesitant \"just in case\".
        - Pradyun: Oh, don\'t worry about it. I\'ll do cherry-pick to a new branch for bug fix releases \-- no need to be hesitant.
        - If no-one else gets to it, Paul will do some merges in the next couple of days (but I\'ll prioritise time off!)

      - Paul: Usual procedure: Freeze gets announced by whoever RM says so, on the [GitHub](./GitHub.html) issue, \"please stop merging to master\". Release on freeze gets done the same way. Freeze is usually fairly well observed. Freeze lifting, in general, people are slow and gradual about getting merging in again. Unusual this time that we had a batch/backlog of resolver stuff merge.

      - Sumana: thawing! Got it. A gradual process.
    - On getting other maintainers (Xavier, Chris Jerdonek, Chris Hunt, Donald) to review \-- let\'s try, but it can be harder to ping them (e.g. on Zulip)
    - Pradyun: difference in speed/philosophy/pace. Speed of current work is faster than usual feedback cycle.
  - Podcasts
    - Paul happy to wing it
    - Pradyun raises hand and would like some help.
    - TP: ???
