# PackagingWG/2020-12-01-pip-team-meeting

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

Tuesday 1 December

Participants

- Sumana
- Nicole
- Pradyun
- Georgia

Agenda

- Yay, pip 20.3 release!
  - Yay and thank you Pradyun
    - Spacebar CPU ![:-)](/wiki/europython/img/smile.png ":-)") [https://xkcd.com/1172/](https://xkcd.com/1172/)

    - \[and thank you to Sumana\]
  - some serious issues have come in but not showstopper horrible ones
  - when new issues come in that could have been caught in beta: \"tell us what could have happened differently so you could have tested and caught this during the beta\" +++
    - this will be useful partly to know where they are following, what info sources to use next time
    - UX folks may come up with tweaked language

- Status & blockers

  - Nicole: working on pip docs, been compiling recommendations based on user interviews & doc survey. working on a revised site map for pip docs.

    - no blockers
    - ?: how to recruit packaging maintainers to training sessions

  - Pradyun: no blockers; has day job commitments. triaging issues as they come in. noticing 3 issues in particular. working on a point release. putting things in 20.3.1 milestone. (PyCharm stuff first.)

  - Sumana: partway through [https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8936#issuecomment-721440282](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8936#issuecomment-721440282) checklist

    - todo: Paperwork, CZI presentation

  - Georgia: wrangling training stuff and other last \[Phase III\] stuff to have a tighter plan
    - blocker: Thurs and Fri, doing some home logistics

  - Bernard: went with Pradyun through the data on the users with 2-10 years of experience, their mental models. Today: hope to get back onto report stuff
    - no particular blockers

- Invoices - for November - please submit them

- UX training
  - per notes from Wednesday last week: UX team wants to get Doodle out to mailing list, ideally this week, to start finding times in December and, likely, offer some in January.
    - give email to Pradyun or Sumana so we can forward to pypa-committers list

- Probably defer to Wednesday: 20.3.1 planning & triaging issues
