# FrontRangePythoneers/PyUnCon/2010

::: {#content dir="ltr" lang="en"}
# PyUnCon 2010: Front Range Pythoneers Unconference 2010 {#PyUnCon_2010:_Front_Range_Pythoneers_Unconference_2010}

We\'re planning a Python Unconference. Date: TBD.

Note that an unconference assumes participation by a majority of the attendees. The more you put into it, the more you\'ll get out. Please feel free to edit this page if you\'d like to contribute.

## Dates & Locations {#Dates_.26_Locations}

Day 1 Unconference

- Date: TBD Location: Hoping to be Google Boulder office, 2590 Pearl Street. Google will be sponsoring the event.

Day 2 [CodeJam](./CodeJam.html){.nonexistent}

- Date: TBD Location: TBD

## Social networking {#Social_networking}

Proposed Twitter hashtag: #pyuncon10

## Day 1 (The Unconference) {#Day_1_.28The_Unconference.29}

The unconference will be an event where everyone is welcome be part of the actual conference other then just be an attendee. All are welcome to give a speech and/or presentation about Python or the tools that you use with your Python. If you\'re not sure what to talk about, there are a few ideas below, or if you would like to hear someone talk about something, please feel free to add to the list.

### What would you like to talk about? {#What_would_you_like_to_talk_about.3F}

- (Note that many topics will come up \*at\* the conference)

### What would you like to learn about? {#What_would_you_like_to_learn_about.3F}

### What would you like to do to help out with the conference? {#What_would_you_like_to_do_to_help_out_with_the_conference.3F}

### RSVP {#RSVP}

If you are wishing to attend the unconfrence. We do ask that if you would please RSVP on the Meetup site @ Link Comming Soon

This will help use in getting started the day of the event as well as planning for everything. Including food and drink.

## Day 2 (CodeJaming) {#Day_2_.28CodeJaming.29}
:::
