# PackagingWG/2018-04-23-Warehouse

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

# Warehouse weekly meeting 

Monday, 23 April 2018

## Present 

- Nicole
- Dustin
- Sumana
- Laura
- Ernest
- Mark

## Announcements 

From Jochai at Mozilla, last week:

\"Very exciting, Sumana! Congrats to you and the team! Cheers, Jochai\"

Sumana: unavailable much of this week

Ernest: We\'ve done \_50\_ deploys since prod launch!!!

## Working on/blocked 

Nicole:

- Reviewing PRs

- Starting user research for project detail page - please try \[Google form\], use link to give feedback (soon please TODO for all of us - EOD Tuesday)

- Starting planning for next round of user tests (and user test training). 59 volunteers \\o/

- No blockers ![:)](/wiki/europython/img/smile.png ":)")

Sumana:

Need to:

- Submit request for OTF Red Team audit
- Ask Mozilla about further funding
- Give Betsy, Mark, rest of community our thoughts on what we could do with more money \-- add to weekly email for tomorrow
- Preparing for Warehouse sprint night with Laura on Thursday (the 26th)

Mark:

- tweeting from \@ThePSF about PyPI launch? - TODO - followup with Betsy/Marketing WG\-- DONE [https://twitter.com/di_codes/status/985896605294448640](https://twitter.com/di_codes/status/985896605294448640)

- need Open Tech Fund feedback from team \-- DEADLINE April 26th

- *Estimate Remaining* \$ 2,369.50 - for May (in MOSS award)

  - Ernest: can we update the column for \"Estimate\" to include reallocation that occurred? TODO for Mark (with Ewa)

Ernest:

- Primarily investigating and improving reliability concerns, metrics, monitoring.

- Search Index - may be resolved, Memory Consumption, HTTP 5xx errors - trending toward 0 errors

- Blocked: Just on time! April 30 can\'t come soon enough ![:)](/wiki/europython/img/smile.png ":)")

Dustin:

- Milestone #5
- Wrapping up \"on hold until we launch\" PRs

Laura:

- Promoted new PyPI on mailing list and the Changelog: [https://blog.python.org/2018/04/new-pypi-launched-legacy-pypi-shutting.html](https://blog.python.org/2018/04/new-pypi-launched-legacy-pypi-shutting.html) and LWN: [https://lwn.net/Articles/752192/](https://lwn.net/Articles/752192/)

- Sprint with NYC Python and PyLadies this Thursday!

## Ask Donald for 

- Update GDPR issue with VanL\'s reply

## Upcoming talks/sprints? 

- PyPA \[redacted\] sprint \-- October 27/28? TODO Sumana to reach out to PyPA today

- I think we should consider submitting a session to Open Source Summit, Wednesday, August 29 -- Friday, August 31, 2018 in Vancouver, Canada. [https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/open-source-summit-north-america-2018/program/cfp/](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/open-source-summit-north-america-2018/program/cfp/) --- CfP closes April 29th. 2000+ attendees, includes subconferences LinuxCon, ContainerCon and CloudOpen, and I think it might be a good opportunity to sell to the business-open-sourcey community, \"here\'s what Packaging WG did with this much funding, here are the benefits we could offer to the industry if we had \$[\_.\" ]

  - Sumana TODO - ask Packaging WG \-- DONE

## After April 30th: momentum 

Who\'s committing to what as volunteers after grant is over?

- Ernest - will keep working on infrastructure, keeping eye on issue tracker - 8 hours/week volunteer - depends on job search

- Nicole - will continue to work on project, possibly reduced rate. will continue with user testing, reviewing PRs,

- Dustin - \~10 hrs week, depending on schedule

- Mark - help out with infrastructure - discuss with Ernest - doesn\'t have time allocation, depends on PSF

- Laura - not quite sure, hoping to keep contributing a few hours/week

- Sumana: will work on Python stuff \<8 hours/week

Ernest, Dustin, and Nicole to try to concentrate volunteer time on supporting, responding to volunteers, and to find potential coordinator/co-maintainer candidates at[ [PyCon](./PyCon.html) ]sprints[ ]

## TODO 

Everyone:

- Give Nicole feedback via Google form before EoD Tuesday
- Give Mark feedback on Open Tech Fund answers by EoD Wednesday

Sumana:

- file issue re: redirects for search/filter queries \-- [DONE](https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/issues/3799)

- Submit request for OTF Red Team audit

- Ask Mozilla about further funding

- Give Betsy, Mark, rest of community our thoughts on what we could do with more money \-- add to weekly email for tomorrow

- Preparing for Warehouse sprint night with Laura on Thursday (the 26th)

Donald:

- Update GDPR issue with VanL\'s reply

Mark:

- Update MOSS budget spreadsheet \-- update the column for \"Estimate\" to include reallocation that occurred
