# PackagingWG/2020-09-29-pip-teamwidemeeting

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

Tuesday Sept 29

Participants:

- Ernest
- Georgia
- Nicole
- Sumana

Status & blockers

- Pradyun: better than last week.
  - has had a few calls with Bernard re pip output. Productive. just not enough hours in the day

  - TP & Paul and Pradyun having discussions about performance, reducing how much we hit the network. Pradyun will probably make a rough draft of what he & Bernard are discussing.

  - TODO: actually adding flag for rollout. Including filing a flag for it. \-- DONE [https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8937](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8937)
- Nicole:
  - been continuing to conduct user interviews. blocker: no-shows ![:(](/wiki/europython/img/sad.png ":(") not unusual. Also: had an interview where we talked about `pipÂ wheel`{.backtick} and would like to better understand (talk with Pradyun).

  - now promoting the survey on pip install. numbers are good - response rate and promoting/outreach seems to be working! \"buy a feature\" - waded into Reddit, may not do that again.
    - Sumana: disclaimer that she doesn\'t know about efficacy of Reddit, Instagram, Facebook, Hacker News

    - Nicole will continue wading into Reddit.

    - Pradyun suggests: a big Python Discord (pythondiscord.com)

    - Georgia suggests: newsletter & blog post generated a lot of attention \-- let\'s also look back through tweets, see whether a particular person RTing helped a lot. Let\'s collect meta-info on what works well.

      - Nicole: to collect in UX notes about effective UX research.

  - TODO: Georgia to give Sumana access to the resolver survey (needs to check on permissions) \-- eventually DONE via Bernard sharing in another medium

  - TODO: Pradyun to look at the resolver survey a few times a week to check for actual bugs that need followup \-- in progress
- Georgia:
  - juggling a lot. Working on giving Ernest tweets in a useful way. May just give Ernest a weekly tweet to send. Ernest says that is okay.
  - Also, Georgia to send contract amendment to extend to Dec.
  - training for maintainers:
    - resources/playbook that say: when you are designing a new feature, here\'s
      - how to design those well
      - how to get feedback
      - how to publicize things
- Sumana:
  - Wrapping up the edutainment video

  - Want to have discussion about 20.3 release + the resolver in it.
    - Specifically, the performance.

  - Blockers: none, other than the video \-- DONE [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B4GQCBBsuNU](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B4GQCBBsuNU)
- Ernest
  - need Pradyun\'s invoice

Tomorrow: to discuss: performance and go/no-go decision on new resolver as default in 20.3
