# PackagingWG/2020-04-16-pip

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

Team meeting

16 April 2020

- Bernard
- Ernest
- Ilan
- Paul
- Pradyun
- Sumana
- Tzu-Ping
- Georgia

Agenda

- Invoices
  - reminder to Ilan

  - [https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2020/04/thank-you-to-donors-sponsors.html](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2020/04/thank-you-to-donors-sponsors.html)
- Future grants/projects
  - [https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2020/04/sponsoring-python-packaging.html](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2020/04/sponsoring-python-packaging.html) may lead to more future projects

  - If you\'re interested in helping apply for money, talk with Sumana
    - \@Sumana/Any devs --- Have you talked more with Alyssa/Open Source Collective about the BackYourStack ([https://backyourstack.com/](https://backyourstack.com/)) project? Has anyone tried backyourstack for pip?

    - \@Ernest --- I think that Ewa/PSF is connected into the FOSS Responders effort, but might be worth connecting about that.

    - Georgia is always happy to contribute/review/support, but unfortunately can\'t take the lead. Georgia will flag anything she sees that seems particularly appropriate.
- Communication about the resolver in pip 20.1 (this month)
  - [https://python.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/218659-pip-development/topic/Pip.2020.2E1.20Release.20Notes/near/194236226](https://python.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/218659-pip-development/topic/Pip.2020.2E1.20Release.20Notes/near/194236226)

  - [https://hackmd.io/nSueIf7PQViDeaEPQIuprQ?both](https://hackmd.io/nSueIf7PQViDeaEPQIuprQ?both) \-- more useful when we want people to actually test the resolver

  - what should we do regarding what we tell users about the resolver in the April release?
    - Paul: not sure. At a minimum we should say: new resolver is there. Available if you specify this set of options. Not ready yet, but you can use it. But we don\'t want to FOCUS on the resolver in release notes - there are many other things going into this release that we need to publicize. How do we direct people who want to test?
      - Bernard: blog post that was written, and survey, are non GitHub

      - Sumana: see [https://wiki.python.org/psf/WarehousePackageMaintainerTesting](https://wiki.python.org/psf/WarehousePackageMaintainerTesting) ? something like that, or a GitHub issue where we post and then lock?

      - Paul: idea: take the bits of info from the release notes draft Paul wrote [https://hackmd.io/nSueIf7PQViDeaEPQIuprQ?both](https://hackmd.io/nSueIf7PQViDeaEPQIuprQ?both) (doesn\'t yet include stuff like \"where we want you to report issues to), and other things (lost track of where they are), put that somewhere, like a wiki page or an issue, and then write a small sentence and link to it from the release notes.

        - TODO: add email address

      - Where do release notes usually live?
        - [https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/news/](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/news/) \-\-- says \"release notes\" but should say \"changelog\" that\'s just the changelog, a 2-liner, usually\.... pip.pypa.io

        - CHANGELOG \... itemized, dot points

        - Release notes: prose, written for humans, usually sent to key mailing lists

        - TODO: Pradyun: we should rename that page to be \"changelog / NEWS\" \-- DONE

      - What are the other things we should find?
        - over the last week, people talked about having stuff.
          - TODO: Sumana to take this in hand. \-- DONE
            - 3 things
              - changelog entry
              - release notes
                - Pradyun:Usually the release manager does this.

                - Paul: I think it should be the RM, yes ![:-)](/wiki/europython/img/smile.png ":-)")
              - wiki-type page
- UX collab sessions
  - TODO: SS to get the recurring aspect working again
    - calendars!!!! \*shakes fist\*
- UX outputs
  - this month could we have some preliminary reports/something to help us understand user mental models and workflows/sequences/activities?

  - Bernard has posted WIP blog post [http://www.ei8fdb.org/thoughts/2020/03/pip-ux-studies-response-data/](http://www.ei8fdb.org/thoughts/2020/03/pip-ux-studies-response-data/)

  - Georgia: we need to do some synthesis & general overview update. Can do that this month.
- Ilan test checkin
  - Pradyun: no significant update right now. We had a call more than a week ago. On-and-off discussions and acknowledgments\....
  - Ilan: haven\'t added any pull requests since last week. Need to find the time to do a couple of things. Should be able to spend a lot more time this week.
  - Ilan is going to have a call with Bernard (30 min) - already scheduled
