# PackagingWG

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

# Packaging Working Group 

The Packaging Working Group is a volunteer [work group of the Python Software Foundation](https://www.python.org/psf/committees/#packaging-work-group).

## Agenda 

The purpose of this working group is to support the larger efforts of improving and maintaining the packaging ecosystem in Python through fundraising (including [a sponsorship program](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2020/04/sponsoring-python-packaging.html)) and disbursement of raised funds. It largely focuses on efforts such as PyPI, pip, packaging.python.org, setuptools, and cross-project efforts.

## Resources 

- Discussion: Slack and mailing list. The archives are set to private since there is voting.

- Accounting: We rely on the PSF\'s [donation](http://donate.pypi.org/) and accounting mechanisms to raise funds and disburse them to the selected recipients.

- Project ideas: [Fundable packaging improvements](https://github.com/psf/fundable-packaging-improvements/)

## Governance 

Decisions on what fundraising and projects/efforts to support will be done by a simple majority and in the case of a tie, will escalate to the PSF Board. See [the PSF Packaging WG Charter](./PackagingWG(2f)Charter.html).

### Administration and Contact 

- Donald Stufft \<[donald@python.org](mailto:donald@python.org)\> (chair)

- Dustin Ingram \<[di@python.org](mailto:di@python.org)\> (co-chair)

- Nicole Harris \<[n.harris@kabucreative.com](mailto:n.harris@kabucreative.com)\> (co-chair)

- [PSF Packaging WG Charter](./PackagingWG(2f)Charter.html)

To contact the Packaging WG, email \<[packaging-wg@python.org](mailto:packaging-wg@python.org)\>.

### Members 

- Alyssa Coghlan
- Ee Durbin
- Thea Flowers
- Nathaniel J. Smith
- Tzu-ping Chung
- Jannis Leidel
- (others will be added as they accept their invitation to the WG)

### Meetings 

As needed.

## Current Projects 

### Fundraising 

The Packaging Working Group is seeking [sponsorships](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2020/04/sponsoring-python-packaging.html) and grants to raise funds for [fundable packaging improvements](https://github.com/psf/fundable-packaging-improvements).

### Sprints 

We run [PackagingSprints](PackagingSprints) at conventions and as standalone events. We\'re open to companies and organizations hosting sprints and work weeks to help us move packaging forward; get in contact with a Working Group member.

### PyPI Malware Reporting and Response project 

The PSF has received funding from the Center for Security and Emerging Technology (CSET) to develop and improve the infrastructure for malware reporting and response on PyPI.

- *Summary*: Develop an API that allows malware reporting and define the criteria for automated consensus based takedown and soft-deletes of packages

- *Schedule*: One year

- *Meetings and Updates*: See below.

Meetings and status updates:

::: {}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------------
  Meeting/update                                                                                                                                      Type              Date
  [Meeting with PyPI admins](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1En1SlRZ_jx6J0qKqyes1iFuaL2DDo7yrPXzPQrb8eB0/edit#bookmark=id.xbqxogzehosb)   Meeting minutes   June 02, 2023
  [Project Update](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-malware-detection-project/28222)                                                         Discourse Post    June 21, 2023
  [Project Update](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2023-06-22-malware-detection-project/)                                                         PyPI Blog Post    June 22, 2023
  [Meeting with CSET](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1En1SlRZ_jx6J0qKqyes1iFuaL2DDo7yrPXzPQrb8eB0/edit#bookmark=id.kulfvlfl0iwf)          Meeting minutes   July 03, 2023
  [Outreach Meeting](./(20).html)                                                                                                       Meeting minutes   July 19, 2023
  [Outreach Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1En1SlRZ_jx6J0qKqyes1iFuaL2DDo7yrPXzPQrb8eB0/edit#bookmark=id.dqjshlfmy8ng)           Meeting minutes   July 19, 2023
  [Outreach Meeting](./(20).html)                                                                                                       Meeting minutes   July 20, 2023
  [Outreach Meeting](./(20).html)                                                                                                       Meeting minutes   July 20, 2023
  [Outreach Meeting](./(20).html)                                                                                                       Meeting minutes   July 21, 2023
  [Outreach Meeting](./(20).html)                                                                                                       Meeting minutes   July 25, 2023
  [Outreach Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1En1SlRZ_jx6J0qKqyes1iFuaL2DDo7yrPXzPQrb8eB0/edit#bookmark=id.7nyszbbnjcw7)           Meeting minutes   July 26, 2023
  [Outreach Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1En1SlRZ_jx6J0qKqyes1iFuaL2DDo7yrPXzPQrb8eB0/edit#bookmark=id.1mkszphbj6m1)           Meeting minutes   July 27, 2023
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------------
:::

## Past projects 

### PyPI Organization Account 

The Python Software Foundation, with the Packaging WG\'s approval, funded a project to deploy organization account features in PyPI.

- *Summary*: Organization accounts in PyPI will allow organizations to create accounts, manage users, manage projects and set permission levels for a team.

- *Schedule*: 16 weeks that commenced on April 1, 2022

- *High level Roadmap*: [PyPI Organization Account High-level Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1F_PfSFVvOiBTml6ImJtLnw-dAjRUTg393TYG74PNGIA/edit?usp=sharing)

- *Detailed Roadmap*: [PyPI Organization Account Detailed Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U3d8fCnoxeuZvy2WmXL6pxyfXuW10LN5F8Jp7fr6S2w/edit?usp=sharing)

- *RfP*: [PyPI Organization Account RfP](https://github.com/psf/request-for/blob/main/2022-PyPI/RFP.md)

- *Code and discussion*: [GitHub repository for Warehouse](https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/), and [Discourse forum](https://discuss.python.org/c/packaging)

- *Project Board*: [PyPI Organization Account Project Board](https://github.com/orgs/pypi/projects/1/views/1)

- *Deployment*: [pypi.org](https://pypi.org/).

- *Testing*: [PyPI Organization Account User Testing](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-organization-account-roadmaps/14699)

- *Manager*: Shamika Mohanan

- *Meetings and Updates*: See below.

Meetings and status updates:

::: {}
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ----------------
  Meeting/update                                                                                                                           Type              Date
  [Onboarding](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.1a06c3qhywph)      Meeting minutes   April 1, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.cjbdnfks14ib)    Meeting minutes   April 5, 2022
  [Project Update](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-organization-account-project-update/14913)                                    Discourse Post    April 8, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.nubhxohfoa4)     Meeting minutes   April 12, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.42sl7ivfzsoh)    Meeting minutes   April 19, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.40s1xqezgygm)    Meeting minutes   April 26, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.hibcqhje4v6y)    Meeting minutes   May 3, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.e80zhg6m4k7c)    Meeting minutes   May 10, 2022
  [Project Update](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-org-account-project-update-ii/15661)                                          Discourse Post    May 10, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.yl5dhj6qtkms)    Meeting minutes   May 17, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.v66xpa3bxs7j)    Meeting minutes   May 24, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.k5ocjng05grp)    Meeting minutes   May 27, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.nolcanx62w3o)    Meeting minutes   May 31, 2022
  [Project Update](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-org-account-project-update-iii/16136)                                         Discourse Post    May 31, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.6wd5x6rmb8ic)    Meeting minutes   June 1, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.vh8rkurxikfw)    Meeting minutes   June 3, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.ydi6bp6b1z7t)    Meeting minutes   June 7, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.5qu66m6usbkx)    Meeting minutes   June 14, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.9c7hh1xh44q2)    Meeting minutes   June 21, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=kix.9jo1669ckb2x)   Meeting minutes   June 28, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.yrsu7yva42tw)    Meeting minutes   July 5, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.pjv2b4k37lle)    Meeting minutes   June 6, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.qakpg5c45ovy)    Meeting minutes   July 12, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.j4urf12vxoob)    Meeting minutes   July 19, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.s1ao4euwi6an)    Meeting minutes   July 26, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.90je7vz7grmp)    Meeting minutes   Aug 02, 2022
  [Project Update](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-organization-account-project-update-iv/17940)                                 Discourse Post    Aug 03, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.h6zfh4kmp9rc)    Meeting minutes   Aug 05, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.w9mlatfq0mcw)    Meeting minutes   Aug 05, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.m7ic4tc5l4bx)    Meeting minutes   Aug 08, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.1p65w4pna4ad)    Meeting minutes   Aug 08, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.jfs6mfz2e771)    Meeting minutes   Aug 08, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.w763i2p9xr1y)    Meeting minutes   Aug 09, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.l6o5eh7gdza5)    Meeting minutes   Aug 16, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.fjv73tyhnsj4)    Meeting minutes   Sep 06, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=kix.rxgeucub9675)   Meeting minutes   Sep 13, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=kix.3suwu2gvfg8y)   Meeting minutes   Sep 27, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.loeg4akti4lk)    Meeting minutes   Oct 4, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.k9irfdhirabr)    Meeting minutes   Oct 11, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.wqz7ef1o66x8)    Meeting minutes   Oct 14, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.h6dpg5ofap3e)    Meeting minutes   Oct 20, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.hvg030lpxqse)    Meeting minutes   Oct 20, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.2itj98rewvvo)    Meeting minutes   Oct 21, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.vbucr64fbh8w)    Meeting minutes   Oct 21, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.ayhmmckepnyv)    Meeting minutes   Oct 24, 2022
  [Team Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.bliqtvamn15d)    Meeting minutes   Oct 25, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.efo8qa3dh6th)    Meeting minutes   Oct 27, 2022
  [User Testing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v1_1c0C8jyHw72jj_suOzejaVBvdUjKBwMVxuoRWFqk/edit#bookmark=id.og8jwfc3xalx)    Meeting minutes   Nov 09, 2022
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ----------------
:::

### Warehouse: Facebook gift 

The Packaging Working Group applied for and is receiving a gift from Facebook to implement & deploy security features for Warehouse (PyPI\'s codebase).

- *Summary*: Cryptographic signing of artifacts, and malware detection. [See announcement blog post](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2018/12/upcoming-pypi-improvements-for-2019.html), and [the milestone description on GitHub](https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/milestone/16).

- *Schedule*: As of 2 January 2020, the PSF has hired contractors to carry out this work, and has commenced work.

- *Roadmap*: [WarehouseRoadmap](WarehouseRoadmap)

- *Code and discussion*: [GitHub repository for Warehouse](https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/), [Zulip livechat](https://python.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/223926-pep458-implementation/), and [Discourse forum](https://discuss.python.org/c/packaging).

- *Deployment*: [pypi.org](https://pypi.org/).

- *Testing*: To be determined

- *Manager*: Ee Durbin

- *Meetings and Updates*: See below.

Meetings and status updates:

::: {}
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------- ----------------------
  Meeting/update                                                                                                                                                             Type                            Date
  [Python Package Index - Python Software Foundation\'s TUF key generation and signing ceremonies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jjAq7S49eow)                      Live video stream of ceremony   October 30th, 2020
  [Scoping Facebook-funded work](./PackagingWG(2f)2019(2d)06(2d)20(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                                                        Meeting notes                   June 20th, 2019
  [Announcement of Request for Information](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/08/pypi-security-q4-2019-request-for.html)                                             Blog post                       August 28th, 2019
  [Announcement of Request for Proposals](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/09/pypi-security-q4-2019-request-for.html)                                               Blog post                       September 25th, 2019
  [Kickoff - 2019 Q4 RFP Milestone 2 - Automated Detection of Malicious Uploads](./PackagingWG(2f)2019(2d)12(2d)11(2d)Warehouse.html)                                        Meeting notes                   December 11th, 2019
  [Contrasting Transparent Logs and The Update Framework](https://ssl.engineering.nyu.edu/blog/2020-02-03-transparent-logs)                                          Blog post                       February 3rd, 2020
  [An Update PyPI Funded Work](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2020/03/an-update-pypi-funded-work.html)                                                                 Blog post                       March 4th, 2020
  [Automatic detection of Malware in PyPi](https://www.meetup.com/pacifichackers/events/267932809/) ([video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=28BoQLWKGWw))   Online talk                     March 14th, 2020
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------- ----------------------
:::

### Dependency resolver and user experience improvements for pip 

The Packaging Working Group applied for and is receiving funding to work in 2020 on the design, implementation, and rollout of [pip\'s next-generation dependency resolver](https://github.com/psf/fundable-packaging-improvements/blob/master/FUNDABLES.md#finish-dependency-resolver-for-pip). The donors funding this work are the [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/proposals/improving-user-experience-and-debuggability-of-pip-for-all-python-users/) (USD\$200,000) and [Mozilla Open Source Support](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/moss/) (USD\$207,000).

- *Summary*: Complete [pip\'s next-generation dependency resolver](https://github.com/psf/fundable-packaging-improvements/blob/master/FUNDABLES.md#finish-dependency-resolver-for-pip), and do [user experience research and design to improve pip\'s usability and debuggability](https://github.com/psf/fundable-packaging-improvements/blob/master/FUNDABLES.md#improve-pip-user-experience)

- *Schedule*: The PSF chose contractors to carry out this work in late 2019/early 2020, and commenced work in early 2020. In July 2020 the team delivered pip 20.2, which includes a beta of the new resolver. The team [shipped the new resolver as default in pip 20.3](https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/user_guide/#changes-to-the-pip-dependency-resolver-in-20-3-2020), in November 2020. The work will end in December 2020/early January 2021.

- *Roadmap*: [Pip2020DonorFundedRoadmap](Pip2020DonorFundedRoadmap)

- *Code and discussion*: [GitHub repository for pip](https://github.com/pypa/pip/), [Zulip livechat](https://python.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/218659-pip-development), and [Discourse forum](https://discuss.python.org/c/packaging).

- *Testing*: A mix of automated testing and a series of general public beta periods.

- *Manager*: Sumana Harihareswara

- *Meetings and Updates*: See below.

Meetings and status updates:

::: {}
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ----------------------
  Meeting/update                                                                                                                                                                                  Type                Date
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)12(2d)23(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       December 23rd, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)12(2d)22(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       December 22nd, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)12(2d)16(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       December 16th, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)12(2d)15(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       December 15th, 2020
  [Retrospective presentation at CZI convening](https://zenodo.org/record/4484437)                                                                                                        Presentation        December 10th, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)12(2d)09(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       December 9th, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)12(2d)08(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       December 8th, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)12(2d)02(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       December 2nd, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)12(2d)01(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       December 1st, 2020
  [Pradyun-Sumana meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)11(2d)25(2d)pip(2d)small(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                     Meeting notes       November 25th, 2020
  [Announcement: pip 20.3 release!](https://discuss.python.org/t/announcement-pip-20-3-release/5948)                                                                                      Forum post          November 30th, 2020
  [Releasing pip 20.3, featuring new dependency resolver](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2020/11/pip-20-3-new-resolver.html)                                                                Blog post           November 30th, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)11(2d)24(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       November 24th, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)11(2d)23(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       November 23rd, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)11(2d)18(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       November 18th, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)11(2d)17(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       November 17th, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)11(2d)11(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       November 11th, 2020
  [Full teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)11(2d)10(2d)pip(2d)teamwide(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                   Meeting notes       November 10th, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)11(2d)02(2d)pip(2d)teamwide(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       November 2nd, 2020
  [Full teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)10(2d)28(2d)pip(2d)teamwide(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                   Meeting notes       October 28th, 2020
  [Full teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)10(2d)27(2d)pip(2d)teamwide(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                   Meeting notes       October 27th, 2020
  [Full teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)10(2d)21(2d)pip(2d)teamwide(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                   Meeting notes       October 21st, 2020
  [Team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)10(2d)20(2d)pip(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       October 20th, 2020
  [Full teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)10(2d)12(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                       Meeting notes       October 12th, 2020
  [Full teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)10(2d)07(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                       Meeting notes       October 7th, 2020
  [Mini- meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)10(2d)06(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                               Meeting notes       October 6th, 2020
  [Real Python podcast interview with Georgia Bullen and Sumana Harihareswara, \"Resolving Package Dependencies With the New Version of Pip\"](https://realpython.com/podcasts/rpp/29/)   Podcast interview   October 2nd, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)09(2d)30(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       September 30th, 2020
  [Software Developers Journey Podcast interview with Sumana Harihareswara](https://devjourney.info/Guests/120-SumanaHarihareswara.html)                                                  Podcast interview   September 29th, 2020
  [\"Changes are coming to pip\" video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B4GQCBBsuNU)                                                                                                      Video on YouTube    September 29th, 2020
  [Mini-team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)09(2d)29(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                           Meeting notes       September 29th, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)09(2d)23(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       September 23rd, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)09(2d)16(2d)pip(2d)mini(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                    Meeting notes       September 16th, 2020
  [Answer these surveys to improve pip\'s usability](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2020/09/answer-surveys-improve-pip-ux.html)                                                             Blog post           September 15th, 2020
  [Mini-team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)09(2d)09(2d)pip(2d)mini(2d)team(2d)meeting.html)                                                                                                   Meeting notes       September 9th, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)09(2d)08(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       September 8th, 2020
  [FLOSS Weekly #594: Pip and the Python Package Index](https://twit.tv/shows/floss-weekly/episodes/594?autostart=false)                                                                  Podcast interview   September 2nd, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)09(2d)02(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       September 2nd, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)08(2d)26(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       August 26th, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)08(2d)19(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       August 19th, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)08(2d)12(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       August 12th, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)08(2d)05(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       August 5th, 2020
  [Test & Code 124: pip dependency resolver changes](https://testandcode.com/124)                                                                                                         Podcast interview   August 3rd, 2020
  [Upgrade to pip 20.2, plus, changes coming in 20.3](https://blog.python.org/2020/07/upgrade-pip-20-2-changes-20-3.html)                                                                 Blog post           July 30th, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)07(2d)29(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       July 29th, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)07(2d)22(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       July 22nd, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)07(2d)15(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       July 15th, 2020
  [Pip team midyear report](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2020/07/pip-team-midyear-report.html)                                                                                            Blog post           July 13th, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)07(2d)08(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       July 8th, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)07(2d)01(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       July 1st, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)06(2d)24(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       June 24th, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)06(2d)17(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       June 17th, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)06(2d)10(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       June 10th, 2020
  [Developer team syncup, and teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)06(2d)03(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                    Meeting notes       June 3rd, 2020
  [Developer team syncup, and teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)05(2d)27(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                    Meeting notes       May 27th, 2020
  [Podcast.\_\_init\_\_ episode \"Dependency Management Improvements In Pip\'s Resolver - Episode 264\"](https://www.pythonpodcast.com/pip-resolver-dependency-management-episode-264/)   Podcast interview   May 25th, 2020
  [Teamwide meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)05(2d)20(2d)pip(2d)teamwidemeeting.html)                                                                                                            Meeting notes       May 20th, 2020
  [Developer team meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)05(2d)20(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                         Meeting notes       May 20th, 2020
  [UX-dev collaboration discussion](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)05(2d)18(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       May 18th, 2020
  [Teamwide syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)05(2d)14(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                                Meeting notes       May 14th, 2020
  [Nicole-Pradyun discussion](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)05(2d)13(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                      Meeting notes       May 13th, 2020
  [Developer team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)05(2d)11(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                          Meeting notes       May 11th, 2020
  [Teamwide syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)05(2d)07(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                                Meeting notes       May 7th, 2020
  [Developer team syncup, and pip UX/resolver collaboration notes](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)05(2d)05(2d)pip.html)                                                                                 Meeting notes       May 5th-7th, 2020
  [Pip 20.1 has been released](https://blog.python.org/2020/04/pip-20-1-released.html)                                                                                                    Blog post           April 30th, 2020
  [Teamwide syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)04(2d)30(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                                Meeting notes       April 30th, 2020
  [Tzu-Ping and Pradyun discussion](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)04(2d)29(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       April 29th, 2020
  [Developer team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)04(2d)28(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                          Meeting notes       April 28th, 2020
  [Resolver planning team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)04(2d)23(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                  Meeting notes       April 23rd, 2020
  [Developer team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)04(2d)22(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                          Meeting notes       April 22nd, 2020
  [An update on pip and dependency resolution](https://discuss.python.org/t/an-update-on-pip-and-dependency-resolution/1898/4)                                                            Forum post          April 20th, 2020
  [Resolver planning discussion and team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)04(2d)16(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                   Meeting notes       April 16th, 2020
  [Resolver planning discussion](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)04(2d)14(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                   Meeting notes       April 14th, 2020
  [Weekly team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)04(2d)09(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                             Meeting notes       April 9th, 2020
  [Resolver planning discussion](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)04(2d)08(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                   Meeting notes       April 8th, 2020
  [Test-writing planning meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)04(2d)04(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                  Meeting notes       April 4th, 2020
  [Resolver planning discussion and team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)04(2d)02(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                   Meeting notes       April 2nd, 2020
  [Test-writing planning meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)03(2d)28(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                  Meeting notes       March 28th, 2020
  [Test planning meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)03(2d)27(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                          Meeting notes       March 27th, 2020
  [Resolver planning discussion and team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)03(2d)26(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                   Meeting notes       March 26th, 2020
  [New pip resolver to roll out this year](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2020/03/new-pip-resolver-to-roll-out-this-year.html)                                                              Blog post           March 23rd, 2020
  [Resolver planning discussion and team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)03(2d)19(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                   Meeting notes       March 19th, 2020
  [Resolver planning discussion](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)03(2d)17(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                   Meeting notes       March 17th, 2020
  [Resolver planning discussion and team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)03(2d)12(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                   Meeting notes       March 12th, 2020
  [Resolver planning discussion](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)03(2d)10(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                   Meeting notes       March 10th, 2020
  [Sign-up for the pip UX Studies!](http://www.ei8fdb.org/thoughts/2020/03/pip-ux-study-recruitment/)                                                                                      Blog post           March 5th, 2020
  [Resolver planning discussion and weekly team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)03(2d)05(2d)pip.html)                                                                                            Meeting notes       March 5th, 2020
  [Resolver planning discussion](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)03(2d)03(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                   Meeting notes       March 3rd, 2020
  [Weekly team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)02(2d)27(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                             Meeting notes       February 27th, 2020
  [Presentation \"Python Packaging and Science\" from CZI convening](https://zenodo.org/record/3852050)                                                                                   Presentation        February 25th, 2020
  [Weekly team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)02(2d)20(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                             Meeting notes       February 20th, 2020
  [PyCon UX research planning discussion](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)02(2d)19(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                          Meeting notes       February 19th, 2020
  [Resolver planning discussion](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)02(2d)17(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                   Meeting notes       February 17th, 2020
  [Weekly team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)02(2d)13(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                             Meeting notes       February 13th, 2020
  [Explanation of pip\'s moving parts](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)02(2d)07(2d)pip(2d)explanation.html)                                                                                              Meeting notes       February 7th, 2020
  [Weekly team syncup](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)02(2d)06(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                             Meeting notes       February 6th, 2020
  [Planning UX research work](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)01(2d)29(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                      Meeting notes       January 29th, 2020
  [Planning test infrastructure work](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)01(2d)23(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                              Meeting notes       January 23rd, 2020
  [Beginning to plan resolver work](./PackagingWG(2f)2020(2d)01(2d)08(2d)pip.html)                                                                                                                Meeting notes       January 8th, 2020
  [Mozilla and Chan Zuckerberg Initiative to support pip](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/12/moss-czi-support-pip.html)                                                                 Blog post           December 4th, 2019
  [Seeking Developers for Paid Contract Improving pip](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/11/seeking-developers-for-paid-contract.html)                                                    Blog post           November 11th, 2019
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ----------------------
:::

### Warehouse: OTF grant 

The Packaging Working Group applied for and [received a performance-based contract (like a grant) from the Open Technology Fund](https://www.opentech.fund/results/supported-projects/pypi-improvements/) to implement & deploy security, localization, and accessibility improvements for Warehouse (PyPI\'s codebase).

- *Summary*: [See March 13 2019 blog post](http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/03/commencing-security-accessibility-and.html).

- *Roadmap*: [On Read the Docs.](https://warehouse.readthedocs.io/roadmap/)

- *Schedule*: Several contractors worked, paid by PSF using the OTF funds, from March 2019 till October 2019. As of 8 October 2019, OTF-funded contractors [have finished security improvements, accessibility and internationalization/localization improvements to Warehouse](http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/03/commencing-security-accessibility-and.html), and volunteers are working on Milestone 6, \"Post Legacy Shutdown\".

- *Code*: [GitHub repository](https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/).

- *Deployment*: [pypi.org](https://pypi.org/).

- *Testing*: [WarehousePackageMaintainerTesting](WarehousePackageMaintainerTesting)

- *Manager*: Sumana Harihareswara

- *Meetings and Updates*: See below.

Meetings and status updates from the OTF grant-funded project:

::: {}
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------------
  Meeting/update                                                                                                                                                              Type                Date
  [Start using 2FA and API Tokens on PyPI](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2020/01/start-using-2fa-and-api-tokens-on-pypi.html)                                          Blog post           January 17th, 2020
  [API tokens and all 2FA methods are out of beta](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-security-work-multifactor-auth-progress-help-needed/1042/49)                     Forum post          January 17th, 2020
  [Concluding report on localisation and accessibility work](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-localization-accessibility-progress/2284/4)                            Forum post          October 8th, 2019
  [Early Sept. update on accessibility &amp; localisation work](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-localization-accessibility-progress/2284)                           Forum post          September 8th, 2019
  [Early September update on security work](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-security-work-multifactor-auth-progress-help-needed/1042/47)                            Forum post          September 8th, 2019
  [FLOSS Weekly 545, PyPI Security](https://twit.tv/shows/floss-weekly/episodes/545?autostart=false)                                                                  Podcast interview   September 4th, 2019
  [Prioritizing and estimating security, l10n and a11y work](./PackagingWG(2f)2019(2d)08(2d)29(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                             Meeting notes       August 29th, 2019
  [Podcast.\_\_init\_\_ Episode 225: Security, UX, and Sustainability For The Python Package Index](https://www.pythonpodcast.com/pypi-improvements-episode-225/)     Podcast interview   August 19th, 2019
  [Inspect PyPI event logs to audit your account\'s and project\'s security](https://blog.python.org/2019/08/inspect-pypi-event-logs-audit-security.html)             Blog post           August 15th, 2019
  [Early Aug. update on 2FA, API keys, audit log, &amp; a11y work](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-security-work-multifactor-auth-progress-help-needed/1042/43)     Forum post          August 6th, 2019
  [Prioritizing API token and 2FA issues](./PackagingWG(2f)2019(2d)08(2d)02(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                                                Meeting notes       August 2nd, 2019
  [Audit log design planning](./PackagingWG(2f)2019(2d)07(2d)31(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                                                            Meeting notes       July 31st, 2019
  [PyPI now supports uploading via API token](https://blog.python.org/2019/07/pypi-now-supports-uploading-via-api.html)                                               Blog post           July 31st, 2019
  [preliminary announcement of API token beta](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-security-work-multifactor-auth-progress-help-needed/1042/31)                         Forum post          July 25th, 2019
  [Mid-July update on 2FA, API keys, and a11y work](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-security-work-multifactor-auth-progress-help-needed/1042/29)                    Forum post          July 17th, 2019
  [Early July update on 2FA, API keys, and a11y work](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-security-work-multifactor-auth-progress-help-needed/1042/27)                  Forum post          July 3rd, 2019
  [API key design planning](./PackagingWG(2f)2019(2d)06(2d)24(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                                                              Meeting notes       June 24th, 2019
  [PyPI Now Supports Two-Factor Login via WebAuthn](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/06/pypi-now-supports-two-factor-login-via.html)                                 Blog post           June 18th, 2019
  [Early June update on WebAuthn and accessibility work](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-security-work-multifactor-auth-progress-help-needed/1042/23)               Forum post          June 8th, 2019
  [Initial a11y and i18n planning](./PackagingWG(2f)2019(2d)06(2d)07(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                                                       Meeting notes       June 7th, 2019
  [Use two-factor auth to improve your PyPI account\'s security](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/05/use-two-factor-auth-to-improve-your.html)                       Blog post           May 30th, 2019
  [Late May update on TOTP and WebAuthN work](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-security-work-multifactor-auth-progress-help-needed/1042/17)                          Forum post          May 22nd, 2019
  [PyPI two-factor auth (2FA) trial May 3-20](https://mail.python.org/archives/list/distutils-sig@python.org/thread/JMOBWXWYC2EFYB5JBFMXWBEGD4EAD3CC/)                Mailing list post   May 2nd, 2019
  [(cross-post) PyPI two-factor auth (2FA) trial May 3-20](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-two-factor-auth-2fa-trial-may-3-20/1590)                                 Forum post          May 2nd, 2019
  [Early April update on work and request for advice](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-security-work-multifactor-auth-progress-help-needed/1042/10?)                 Forum post          April 3rd, 2019
  [PyPI security work: multifactor auth progress &amp; help needed](https://discuss.python.org/t/pypi-security-work-multifactor-auth-progress-help-needed/1042)       Forum post          March 22nd, 2019
  [Prioritizing extant security issues](./PackagingWG(2f)2019(2d)03(2d)22(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                                                  Meeting notes       March 22nd, 2019
  [Commencing security, a11y, &amp; i18n improvements to PyPI for 2019](http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/03/commencing-security-accessibility-and.html)                Blog post           March 13th, 2019
  [Kickoff planning meeting with grant-funded team](./PackagingWG(2f)2019(2d)03(2d)11(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                                      Meeting notes       March 11th, 2019
  [Upcoming PyPI Improvements for 2019](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2018/12/upcoming-pypi-improvements-for-2019.html)                                                Blog post           December 20th, 2018
  [PyPI Security and Accessibility Q1 2019 Request for Proposals Update](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2018/12/pypi-security-and-accessibility-q1-2019.html)           Blog post           December 19th, 2018
  [PyPI Security and Accessibility Q1 2019 Request for Proposals period opens](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2018/11/pypi-security-and-accessibility-q1-2019.html)     Blog post           November 19th, 2018
  [PyPI Security and Accessibility Q1 2019 Request for Information period opens](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2018/10/pypi-security-and-accessibility-q1-2019.html)   Blog post           October 30th, 2018
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------------------
:::

### Warehouse rollout 

The Packaging Working Group supported the implementation & deployment of Warehouse (PyPI 2.0) to replace the legacy code base that powered [legacy PyPI](https://github.com/pypa/pypi-legacy). [Announced on PSF blog in January 2016](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2016/01/welcome-to-warehouse.html); see its history in [this April 2018 LWN article](https://lwn.net/Articles/751458/).

- *Summary*: [PSF blog post about the MOSS grant](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2017/11/the-psf-awarded-moss-grant-pypi.html).

- *Roadmap*: [WarehouseRoadmap](WarehouseRoadmap). As of 30 April 2018, the Warehouse team has shut down the legacy PyPI installation, and \-- on a volunteer basis \-- is working on Milestone 6, \"Post Legacy Shutdown\".

- *Code*: [GitHub repository](https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/).

- *Deployment*: [pypi.org](https://pypi.org/).

- *Testing*: See [the PSF blog post about testing for the beta](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2018/03/warehouse-all-new-pypi-is-now-in-beta.html#test). (Previously: [WarehousePackageMaintainerTesting](WarehousePackageMaintainerTesting), [PSF blog post about testing package maintainer functionality](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2018/02/python-package-maintainers-help-test.html).)

- *Manager*: Sumana Harihareswara

- *Meetings and Updates*: See below.

Meetings and status updates from the MOSS-funded project:

::: {}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------- ----------------------------
  Meeting/update                                                                                                                                                     Type                Date
  [PSF announcement of \$170,000 MOSS award to improve sustainability of PyPI](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2017/11/the-psf-awarded-moss-grant-pypi.html)    Blog post           November 27, 2017
  [Kickoff meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2017(2d)12(2d)04(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                                                             Meeting notes       Monday, Dec. 4, 2017
  [Kickoff/milestone update](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/distutils-sig/2017-December/031803.html)                                                      Mailing list post   Thursday, Dec. 7, 2017
  Developer experience audit walkthrough                                                                                                                             in-person meeting   Tuesday, December 12, 2017
  [Maintainer MVP milestone bug triage](./PackagingWG(2f)2017(2d)12(2d)19(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                                         Meeting notes       Tuesday, Dec. 19, 2017
  [Maintainer MVP milestone schedule discussion](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)01(2d)10(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                                Meeting notes       January 10, 2018
  [Mid-January progress](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/pypa-dev/u-RSxosXQh4)                                                                       Mailing list post   Jan. 15, 2018
  [Role management and welcoming first-time contributors](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/pypa-dev/f7VZ_gh5Je0)                                      Mailing list post   Jan. 23, 2018
  [Standup, bug triage, and milestone schedule discussion](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)01(2d)29(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                      Meeting notes       January 29, 2018
  [Late January progress](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/pypa-dev/es_-fC-sdpk)                                                                      Mailing list post   Jan. 30, 2018
  [Standup, bug triage, milestone schedule discussion](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)02(2d)05(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                          Meeting notes       February 5, 2018
  [Warehouse update: still on track, new features](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/pypa-dev/OuFoQqo8ajA)                                             Mailing list post   Feb. 6, 2018
  [Standup/bug triage/milestone schedule update meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)02(2d)12(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                        Meeting notes       Feb. 12th, 2018
  [Warehouse: package manager features &amp; question about advertising](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/pypa-dev/xQb5RvDb5rc)                       Mailing list post   Feb. 13, 2018
  [Standup, bug triage, &amp; milestone schedule update meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)02(2d)20(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                Meeting notes       Feb. 20th, 2018
  [Warehouse: essential maintainer features &amp; next steps](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/distutils-sig/2018-February/032013.html)                     Mailing list post   Feb. 21st, 2018
  [Standup, bug triage, and milestone schedule update meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)02(2d)26(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                  Meeting notes       Feb. 26th, 2018
  [Python package maintainers, help test the new PyPI!](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2018/02/python-package-maintainers-help-test.html)                      Blog post           Feb. 26th, 2018
  [Warehouse update: a week of testing, polish, &amp; infrastructure](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/distutils-sig/2018-February/032020.html)             Mailing list post   Feb. 27th, 2018
  [Planning meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)03(2d)06(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                                                            Meeting notes       March 6th, 2018
  [PyPI &amp; Warehouse update: redirecting &amp; shutting down legacy by end of April](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/pypa-dev/L9sF30_Yr2A)        Mailing list post   March 7th, 2018
  [Core Warehouse developers\' planning meeting](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)03(2d)12(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                                Meeting notes       March 12th, 2018
  [new stuff overview, beta next week, user tests, &amp; other Warehouse updates](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/distutils-sig/2018-March/032043.html)    Mailing list post   March 14th, 2018
  [Planning meeting with core Warehouse developers](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)03(2d)19(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                             Meeting notes       March 19th, 2018
  [PyPI/Warehouse: infrastructure hardening &amp; the CAPTCHA conundrum](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/distutils-sig/2018-March/032065.html)             Mailing list post   March 20th, 2018
  [Weekly planning meeting with core Warehouse developers](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)03(2d)26(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                      Meeting notes       March 20th, 2018
  [Warehouse: All New PyPI is now in beta](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2018/03/warehouse-all-new-pypi-is-now-in-beta.html)                                  Blog post           March 26th, 2018
  [The all new Python Package Index is now in beta at pypi.org](https://blog.python.org/2018/03/the-all-new-python-package-index-is-now.html)                Blog post           March 26th, 2018
  [beta, pythonhosted docs, PEP 541](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/distutils-sig/2018-March/032100.html)                                                 Mailing list post   March 28th, 2018
  [Early April planning meeting with core Warehouse developers](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)04(2d)02(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                 Meeting notes       April 2nd, 2018
  [PyPI/Warehouse update: new advice &amp; launch, shutdown dates](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/distutils-sig/2018-April/032120.html)                   Mailing list post   April 3rd, 2018
  [Mid-April planning meeting with core Warehouse developers](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)04(2d)10(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                   Meeting notes       April 10th, 2018
  [PyPI/Warehouse (short) weekly report: Progress towards launch milestone](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/distutils-sig/2018-April/032143.html)          Mailing list post   April 10th, 2018
  [Summary of PyPI overhaul in new LWN article](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/distutils-sig/2018-April/032154.html)                                      Mailing list post   April 11th, 2018
  [Next Generation PyPI rollout incident report](https://status.python.org/incidents/mgjw1g5yjy5j)                                                           Statuspage report   April 16th, 2018
  [New PyPI launched, legacy PyPI shutting down April 30](https://blog.python.org/2018/04/new-pypi-launched-legacy-pypi-shutting.html)                       Blog post           April 16th, 2018
  [Post-launch planning with core Warehouse developers](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)04(2d)17(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                         Meeting notes       April 17th, 2018
  [Warehouse/PyPI update: launch, project wrapup approaching](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/pypa-dev/MBa5300VlI8)                                  Mailing list post   April 18th, 2018
  [Pre-legacy-shutdown planning with core Warehouse developers](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)04(2d)23(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                 Meeting notes       April 23rd, 2018
  [PyPI update: legacy shutdown 30 April, new classifiers page, seeking funding](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/pypa-dev/zzaTiAoQrA0)               Mailing list post   April 24th, 2018
  [Talk Python Episode #159: Inside the new PyPI launch](https://talkpython.fm/episodes/show/159/inside-the-new-pypi-launch)                                 Podcast interview   April 27, 2018
  [Python legacy sunsetting](https://status.python.org/incidents/ptvp1wnn0jmq)                                                                               Statuspage report   April 30th, 2018
  [legacy.pypi.org shutdown notice](https://mail.python.org/mm3/archives/list/distutils-sig@python.org/thread/YREMU56QKRMTTFBFVFJ2B4EHOEKOJZFJ/)             Mailing list post   April 30th, 2018
  [End-of-project conference call](./PackagingWG(2f)2018(2d)04(2d)30(2d)Warehouse.html)                                                                              Meeting notes       April 30th, 2018
  [Final weekly report: legacy is shut down](https://mail.python.org/mm3/archives/list/distutils-sig@python.org/message/EUCKR3LP6WSH3ZY3YHIXDHYHF6R3HFJE/)   Mailing list post   May 1, 2018
  [FLOSS Weekly #482, PyPI](https://twit.tv/shows/floss-weekly/episodes/482?autostart=false)                                                                 Podcast interview   May 2, 2018
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------- ----------------------------
:::
