# EuroPython/2008/IRCMeetings/IRCMeeting12

::: {#content dir="ltr" lang="en"}
# IRC Meeting #12 {#IRC_Meeting_.2312}

## Time/Location {#Time.2FLocation}

The meeting will take place in the #europython channel on freenode at 18:00 CEST on Thursday 8th May.

Please look at the minutes from the last meeting for more background information: [../IRCMeeting11](./EuroPython(2f)2008(2f)IRCMeetings(2f)IRCMeeting11.html)

## Present {#Present}

\...

## Agenda/Minutes {#Agenda.2FMinutes}

- Registration/Budget - final adjustments

- Getting the logo cleared with the PSF - **Laura will contact the PSF.**

- Keynotes - confirmation of our speakers - **Aiste has been introduced to Hans.**

- Sponsorship
  - Further discussion of the [SponsorOffers](SponsorOffers) document. - **David will send this to Laura and John, and discuss it further with Jacob.**

  - Brief discussion of existing offers from sponsors.

  - Further discussion of the sponsorship of attendees (plus any information that should be published).

- Feedback/Surveys - progress on the processing of last year\'s surveys

- T-shirts (as noted on [this page](http://www.europython.org/community/T_Shirts){.http})

- Streaming and dedicated lines - **We have to see what the traffic shaping is like. We need volunteers, too, so maybe it\'s time to use the europython-volunteer-announce list.**

## Actions {#Actions}

- See the bold sections above\...
:::
