# EuroPython/2008/IRCMeetings/IRCMeeting15

::: {#content dir="ltr" lang="en"}
# IRC Meeting #15 {#IRC_Meeting_.2315}

## Time/Location {#Time.2FLocation}

The meeting will take place in the #europython channel on freenode at 18:00 CEST on Thursday 12th June.

Please look at the minutes from the last meeting for more background information: [../IRCMeeting14](./EuroPython(2f)2008(2f)IRCMeetings(2f)IRCMeeting14.html)

## Present {#Present}

David, Jacob, John, Laura, Lennart, Samuele

## Agenda/Minutes {#Agenda.2FMinutes}

- Registration/Budget - status
  - **158 delegates**

  - **Visa invitations were discussed, and the [Wiki was updated](http://www.europython.org/Travel%20Visas){.http}.**

  - **Various [PayPal](./PayPal.html){.nonexistent} and bank issues were discussed and deferred until later.**

- Keynotes - any updates

- Talks - status report on schedule
  - Times of breaks for the hotel to work with

- Infrastructure - possible further discussions

- Sponsorship
  - Brief discussion of the status of sponsors, incoming materials, and so on. - **Jacob will make a private list of the current sponsors.**

  - Organising sponsors - what do we award companies that are active in organising [EuroPython](EuroPython)? - **Organising sponsors will get Web banners.**

  - Further discussion of the sponsorship of attendees (plus any information that should be published). - **There are 4 requests for sponsored attendees so far.**

  - Banner images

- T-shirts (as noted on [this page](http://www.europython.org/community/T-Shirts){.http})

  - **Zack (the artist) has been put in touch with one of the local organisers.**

- Streaming and dedicated lines - *We have to see what the traffic shaping is like. We need volunteers, too, so maybe it\'s time to use the europython-volunteer-announce list. The proposed licensing was controversial for some.*

  - europython-volunteer-announce status

- food - any updates, costs, etc.

## Actions {#Actions}

- See the bold sections above\...
:::
