# EuroPython/2008/IRCMeetings/IRCMeeting2

::: {#content dir="ltr" lang="en"}
# IRC Meeting #2 {#IRC_Meeting_.232}

## Time/Location {#Time.2FLocation}

The meeting will take place on Thursday 7th February 2008 at 1900 CET in the #europython channel on freenode.

## Resources {#Resources}

The proposed [EuroPython logo](http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/europython-improve/attachments/20071207/5b2c8134/attachment-0001.png){.http} as suggested on the [europython-improve](http://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/europython-improve){.http} mailing list.

## Agenda {#Agenda}

Posted in [this message](http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/europython-improve/2008-February/000049.html){.http}.

## Minutes {#Minutes}

- Talks
  - [Samuele is in charge of talks.](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:11:59){.http}

  - Alex volunteered to help Samuele with reviewing talks

- Budget
  - Laura needs help with the budget, but few volunteers were forthcoming without more details. Laura and Aiste, being centrally involved, need to [recruit people as needed](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:21:58){.http}.

  - [John will send a spreadsheet he uses for such matters.](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:17:59){.http}

  - [Paul will make attendee figures, distributions available](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:18:27){.http} based on more or less public information which he has from Indico. **See [here](http://europython.pyconuk.org/community/Planning/Projections){.http} for this data.**

- Web site
  - The new public Web site currently resides at [http://www.europython.eu/](http://www.europython.eu/){.http}

  - Currently we\'ve managed to expose some known stability problems which [Zeth will hopefully fix](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:22:45){.http}.

  - [Paul will be responsible for content and assisting Zeth with infrastructure.](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:24:43){.http}

  - [Some issues were raised with the \"navibar\"](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:29:06){.http}, but these should be fixable: it concerns the width and number of entries.

  - [Paul will attempt to provoke discussion on the new/proposed logo.](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:26:43){.http}

- Timetable
  - The aim is to [announce a call for talks/proposals by the end of February](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:39:52){.http} with the capability present to receive proposals.

  - If nothing more complicated is considered, it was suggested to [use an archived mailing list to collect proposals](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:41:39){.http}.

  - [Paul will post a draft timetable](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:46:06){.http} based on previous patterns and other conferences. **See [here](http://europython.pyconuk.org/community/Planning/Timetable){.http} for this draft.**

- Publicity
  - [Paul will make an announcement about the dates and venue](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:50:04){.http}, probably to europython-announce initially.

  - Other publicity should be organised via the mailing lists.

- Sprints were not discussed at this meeting.

- Sponsorship was not discussed at this meeting.

- Keynotes
  - Several speakers were [suggested](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:52:32){.http}, although availability of some of them was questioned, and one keynote may be done as a video conference (like Alan Kay at [EuroPython2006](EuroPython2006)).

  - Although not necessarily keynote speakers, [some other suggestions were made](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T20:57:48){.http}.

- Themes
  - Suggested themes included Py3K, mobile computing, [OpenMoko](./OpenMoko.html){.nonexistent}, OLPC (and other big \"Python inside\" projects), Web, [open source software in government](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T21:04:57){.http}.

  - The prospect of having panel discussions [was raised](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T21:02:06){.http}, especially around Py3K.

  - Other conferences can, of course, offer good ideas.

- Remaining agenda issues need input from Laura and Aiste and were not discussed.

- [John aims to have the feedback results ready for next week.](http://mg.pov.lt/europython-irclog/%23europython.2008-02-07.log.html#t2008-02-07T21:09:29){.http}
:::
