# BangPypers/MeetingPyConDiscussion1

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

Pycon India 2009 ================

Author: Noufal Ibrahim \<noufal@sanctuary\> Date: 2009-04-28 22:39:01 IST

Table of Contents ================= 1 [PyCon](PyCon) India discussion

- 1.1 Items discussed
  - 1.1.1 Venue 1.1.2 Format 1.1.3 Speakers from outside 1.1.4 Site 1.1.5 Money matters 1.1.6 Publicity/sponsorhip 1.1.7 Approx expenses

  1.2 Things to do 1.3 Approx timeline

1 [PyCon](PyCon) India discussion \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~

1.1 Items discussed ====================

1.1.1 Venue

------------------------------------------------------------------------

- \- Probably at an academic institution. - Anand has contacted some folks at IISc. and come up with this
  - \- It\'s possible to get the some lecture halls and
    - stuff from the college if \*one of the profs is there on the conference organising committee\*.

1.1.2 Format

------------------------------------------------------------------------

- \- We are hoping for roughly 14-16 slots among which 7-8 will be
  - newbie topics and 7-8 will be advanced.

  \- In order to fill slots and make the event richer, we are
  - considering open spaces and BOF events.

  \- We are also open to lightning talks which can fill gaps and make
  - the event interesting.

  \- We are planning this to be a one day event scheduled for
  - sometime in last September (approx. timeline is there below).

  \- We are currently leaning towards not having a keynote
  - speaker. If things change, we might consider one later.

  \- We are planning to keep a registration fee of Rs. 200 (early
  - bird) and Rs. 300 (spot)

1.1.3 Speakers from outside

------------------------------------------------------------------------

- \- If we \*do\* get speakers from outside, we will pay for
  - accomodation, food and local transport (not for travel).

  \- This will cost us roughly 3000 per per person.

1.1.4 Site

------------------------------------------------------------------------

- \- We are planning to ask Kenneth if we can reuse the software
  - which he has

  \- We are planning to get the pycon domain name from the PSF (in.pycon.org) - It might be a good idea to ask Kenneth to take over the web
  - details completely.

1.1.5 Money matters

------------------------------------------------------------------------

- \- We need an account to hold the funds we gather/collect. - Kenneth might be the person who can arrange for us to use an account.

1.1.6 Publicity/sponsorhip

------------------------------------------------------------------------

- \- We need to leverage personal contacts (companies where we work,
  - people we know) to get information about sponsors as well as the news to spread through the hacker crowd.

1.1.7 Approx expenses

------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Item Rough cost Notes

<!-- -->

- 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\+

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\+

------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Venue 10000 Anand has positive

feedback from IIsc.

- Projectors/Sound systems 10000 Can the college provide

these?

- Food 10000 Outsourced to a caterer Wifi ? Contact Ramdas for this Swag 20000 T-shirts, pens, notepads

etc.

- External speakers 24000 8 external speakers

<!-- -->

- 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\+

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\+

------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Total 74000 Approx. 100,000 (with

safety margin)

1.2 Things to do =================

- \- Site + Financial aspects - Ask Kenneth \[Noufal\] - Venue
  - \- talk to IISc. \[Anand\] - talk to Ramdas about school \[Senthil\]

  \- Wifi
  - \- Talk to Ramdas about this \[ Senthil\] - Talk to Ramakrishna about this \[ Senthil\]

  \- Getting Bruce Eckel for the keynote \[ Senthil to talk to Anand Pillai\]

1.3 Approx timeline ====================

- Date Activity

<!-- -->

- 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\+

------------------------------------------------------------------------

- By 31/April Fix venue, date and No. of days By 7/May Setup site, registration, logo contest Till 30/May Advertise on blogs, mail lists, twitter, sites etc. On 15/Jun Call for CFP On 15/Aug CFP closed 30/Aug Notify selected speakers
