# EuroPython/2007/IrcMeetings/IrcMeeting1

```{admonition} Legacy Wiki Page
:class: note

This page was migrated from the old MoinMoin-based wiki. Information may be outdated or no longer applicable. For current documentation, see [python.org](https://www.python.org).
```

# IRC Meeting #1 

[Meeting minutes](http://codespeak.net/svn/user/mwh/ep2007/meeting-notes-2007-03-08.html)

## Time/Location 

We plan to have a meeting on Wednesday 7th of March 2007 at 1700 GMT+1XX in the #europython channel on freenode.

Currently these people have said they will come:

- [NicolasPettiaux](NicolasPettiaux)

- [MichaelHudson](MichaelHudson)

- XXX

XXX agreed to moderate the meeting,

Let\'s try to keep it to 60 minutes.

Suggested Agenda (please change ahead of the meeting if you like): (taken from 2006 first irc meeting agenda)

- brief posting about everyone\'s interest (to get a picture of why everyone attends)
  - [NicolasPettiaux](NicolasPettiaux) wants to see EP2007 moves forward and help it

  - [MichaelHudson](MichaelHudson) is doing the program chair thing again

- detailed status of preparations at Vilnius

- track planning / chairs status
  - [NicolasPettiaux](NicolasPettiaux) proposes to chair the Europython2007/EducationTrack

- PR-considerations, mostly thinking about keynote-givers

- [EuroPython2007/ProposedTimeline](./EuroPython2007(2f)ProposedTimeline.html) (can someone prepare a proposal from past experiences?)

- schedule next Meeting (mid March ?)

- decide what will happen with the Web site - ie. either have people commit to a switch **and fast**, or just call \"bikeshed\" on the debate and stick with what we\'ve got (if the current hosting is \"stable\")

  - clarify the Indico situation - it looks like a new installation is necessary, so find out where it\'s going to live
