# PackagingWG/2018-04-30-Warehouse

::: {#content dir="ltr" lang="en"}
# Warehouse sync-up meeting {#Warehouse_sync-up_meeting}

Monday, 30 April 2018

## Present {#Present}

- Sumana
- Laura
- Nicole
- Dustin
- Ernest
- Donald
- Mark

## Announcements {#Announcements}

- *Everyone: Submit invoices today*

- EuroPython? Nicole, what do you need logistically to get the MOSS-allocated money for [EuroPython](./EuroPython.html){.nonexistent} sprint work? Will talk to Mark after this call ![:)](/wiki/europython/img/smile.png ":)"){height="16" width="16"}

## Report from Sumana\'s Mozilla call {#Report_from_Sumana.27s_Mozilla_call}

- call with Jochai and Mehan was Friday
- they said our project was a best-in-class example of what they want
- they enjoyed our communications
- we will write a blog post with them to post probably on blog.mozilla.org \-- Sumana in touch with Mehan
- MOSS now accepts applications on a rolling monthly basis
- Maybe they could fund security audit and remediation for Warehouse via Track 3 \-- Sumana to get in touch with them with a similar proposal to what she\'s writing for OTF Red Team application

## User Research {#User_Research}

Over 1700 responses to Google \"buy a feature\" form - thank you to everyone for spreading the word - the data is really useful and will really help with redesigning the project detail page ![:)](/wiki/europython/img/smile.png ":)"){height="16" width="16"}

## MOSS budget spreadsheet {#MOSS_budget_spreadsheet}

Mark and Sumana to discuss what\'s left over once we\'ve received April invoices and taken away money allotted for sprints, probably distribute for a little bit of May work by Ernest, Nicole, and Dustin

## Bloomberg sprint Oct 27-28 {#Bloomberg_sprint_Oct_27-28}

[NY/London - weekend sprint](PackagingSprints)

## Issues to work on at PyCon sprint {#Issues_to_work_on_at_PyCon_sprint}

- Donald: set up design guide for new APIs - present Fri - Mon
- Ernest: planning for future
- Dustin: mark releases as deprecated, 2-stage releases

Anaconda people will be at sprints

Sumana added to [sprint page](PackagingSprints)

## Leftover TODOs? {#Leftover_TODOs.3F}

- Donald, reply to GDPR [https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/issues/3532](https://github.com/pypa/warehouse/issues/3532*){.https}

- Need to fix distutils docs [https://docs.python.org/3.6/distutils/packageindex.html#package-index](https://docs.python.org/3.6/distutils/packageindex.html#package-index){.https}

- Laura and Sumana to write up developer environment issues from NYC Python Thursday night mini-sprint (DONE)
:::
