# PackagingWG/2020-12-09-pip-team-meeting

::: {#content dir="ltr" lang="en"}
Wednesday 9 Dec

Participants

- Sumana
- Pradyun
- Georgia
- Bernard

Agenda

- Anything anyone wants to talk about today/needs to? (short meeting so CZI convening participants can rest a bit)
  - Note to PyPA committers has gone out to start scheduling UX trainings

- \[talking with folks a little about yesterday\'s CZI keynotes and discussions\]
  - [https://spatial.chat/](https://spatial.chat/){.https}

  - [http://www.lauradabbish.com/](http://www.lauradabbish.com/){.http}

  - [https://www.diversityinoss.org/](https://www.diversityinoss.org/){.https}

  - [http://2i2c.org/](http://2i2c.org/){.http} \> Chris Holdgraf\'s new initiative for Jupyter environments as infrastructure

  - 2 UX interviews done yesterday during unstructured time
    - notes: in a notion page that Sumana is not linking to because it has some private login credentials

    - we probably have some open slots today & tomorrow

  - Georgia cannot attend nearly any of the convening, FYI

- future plans for PSF, hiring/funding, packaging & product management

  - money ![:-(](/wiki/europython/img/sad.png ":-("){height="16" width="16"} this year ![:-(](/wiki/europython/img/sad.png ":-("){height="16" width="16"}

  - if we could get a multiyear grant for this that would be awesome

  - Simply Secure\'s lessons learned from MOSS work\.... people and projects learn how to think about project & product management

    - SustainOSS efforts
:::
