# PackagingWG/2020-09-09-pip-mini-team-meeting

::: {#content dir="ltr" lang="en"}
Wednesday, 9 Sept 2020

Participants

- Sumana
- Pradyun

Agenda

- Surveys
  - feedback from the resolver survey - anything that needs to be transferred into GitHub?

    - Pradyun to look at it a few times per week \-- will look at recent responses now, some of which describe bad experiences with the new resolver
- Following up on past TODOs:
  - TODO: [https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8307](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8307){.https} better document what pip will allow in the future

  - re [https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8792](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/8792){.https} - from [https://wiki.python.org/psf/PackagingWG/2020-08-26-pip-teamwidemeeting](https://wiki.python.org/psf/PackagingWG/2020-08-26-pip-teamwidemeeting){.https} - TODO: determine whether this is different than old behavior, and document somewhere on pip.pypa.io, maybe migration guide

  - TODO: Pradyun: a place to ask: Github issues about performance issues, ask them to try fast-deps. (from [https://wiki.python.org/psf/PackagingWG/2020-08-26-pip-teamwidemeeting](https://wiki.python.org/psf/PackagingWG/2020-08-26-pip-teamwidemeeting){.https} )

    - has done this with a few people, they had consistently slower results

    - McSinyx is working on improving performance on a volunteer basis - no specific timeline for the new behavior to become the default

  - fix typo in \"Could not determine installation order due to cicular dependency\" from [https://wiki.python.org/psf/PackagingWG/2020-08-26-pip-teamwidemeeting](https://wiki.python.org/psf/PackagingWG/2020-08-26-pip-teamwidemeeting){.https}

    - Pradyun to double-check
:::
