# PackagingWG/2020-12-08-pip-team-meeting

::: {#content dir="ltr" lang="en"}
Tuesday 8 Dec Participants

- Pradyun
- Nicole
- Bernard
- Sumana
- Georgia
- Ernest

Agenda

- Short meeting (so that CZI convening participants can rest a bit)
- Anything anyone needs?
  - Pradyun re pip 20.3 decisions?
    - needs to look through all issues filed, decide how to prioritize. Review PRs merged for 20.3.2
    - videocall with a buddy would be nice - maybe sometime this week - Thursday morning probably
  - UX team re: the training? Has a Doodle or similar been sent out to target participants?
    - Georgia says: We have it all drafted, but I need to make some edits based on feedback from Bernard Tyers this AM
  - CZI: we have a few things we can share
    - this is a short advertisement
      - [https://www.notion.so/simplysecure/CZI-attendees-talk-to-pip-team-8813b1b6a4a445f08b689a88e9e83aff](https://www.notion.so/simplysecure/CZI-attendees-talk-to-pip-team-8813b1b6a4a445f08b689a88e9e83aff){.https}

      - we have 6 free slots for people to talk with us over the 3 days

      - TODO: Sumana to send to attendees
    - a list of potentially useful/relevant sessions we can attend:
      - \[redacted link\]
      - Sumana will attend all the keynotes
      - Georgia is attending convening mostly with Simply Secure hat on
:::
